with me if I should employ a ‘scab,’ or ‘rat,’” or whatever the phrase
was.
Finally, Tracy had a happy thought. He said, “Why the thing for me to
do, of course, is to join a trade-union.”
“Yes,” Barrow said, “that is the thing for you to do--if you can.”
“If I can? Is it difficult?”
“Well, Yes,” Barrow said, “it’s sometimes difficult--in fact, very
difficult. But you can try, and of course it will be best to try.”
Therefore Tracy tried; but he did not succeed. He was refused admission
with a good deal of promptness, and was advised to go back home, where
he belonged, not come here taking honest men’s bread out of their
mouths. Tracy began to realize that the situation was desperate, and the
thought made him cold to the marrow. He said to himself, “So there is
an aristocracy of position here, and an aristocracy of prosperity, and
apparently there is also an aristocracy of the ins as opposed to the
outs, and I am with the outs. So the ranks grow daily, here. Plainly
there are all kinds of castes here and only one that I belong to, the
outcasts.” But he couldn’t even smile at his small joke, although he
was obliged to confess that he had a rather good opinion of it. He was
feeling so defeated and miserable by this time that he could no longer
look with philosophical complacency on the horseplay of the young
fellows in the upper rooms at night. At first it had been pleasant to
see them unbend and have a good time after having so well earned it by
the labors of the day, but now it all rasped upon his feelings and his
dignity. He lost patience with the spectacle. When they were feeling
good, they shouted, they scuffled, they sang songs, they romped about
the place like cattle, and they generally wound up with a pillow fight,
in which they banged each other over the head, and threw the pillows in
all directions, and every now and then he got a buffet himself; and they
were always inviting him to join in. They called him “Johnny Bull,” and
invited him with excessive familiarity to take a hand. At first he had
endured all this with good nature, but latterly he had shown by his
manner that it was distinctly distasteful to him, and very soon he saw a
change in the manner of these young people toward him. They were souring
on him as they would have expressed it in their language. He had never
been what might be called popular. That was hardly the phrase for it; he
had merely been liked, but now dislike for him was growing. His case
was not helped by the fact that he was out of luck, couldn’t get work,
didn’t belong to a union, and couldn’t gain admission to one. He got a
good many slights of that small ill-defined sort that you can’t quite
put your finger on, and it was manifest that there was only one thing
which protected him from open insult, and that was his muscle. These
young people had seen him exercising, mornings, after his cold sponge
bath, and they had perceived by his performance and the build of his
body, that he was athletic, and also versed in boxing. He felt pretty
naked now, recognizing that he was shorn of all respect except respect
for his fists. One night when he entered his room he found about a
dozen of the young fellows there carrying on a very lively conversation
punctuated with horse-laughter. The talking ceased instantly, and the
frank affront of a dead silence followed. He said,
“Good evening gentlemen,” and sat down.
There was no response. He flushed to the temples but forced himself
to maintain silence. He sat there in this uncomfortable stillness some
time, then got up and went out.
The moment he had disappeared he heard a prodigious shout of laughter
break forth. He saw that their plain purpose had been to insult him.
He ascended to the flat roof, hoping to be able to cool down his spirit
there and get back his tranquility. He found the young tinner up there,
alone and brooding, and entered into conversation with him. They were
pretty fairly matched, now, in unpopularity and general ill-luck and
misery, and they had no trouble in meeting upon this common ground with
advantage and something of comfort to both. But Tracy’s movements had
been watched, and in a few minutes the tormentors came straggling one
after another to the roof, where they began to stroll up and down in an
apparently purposeless way. But presently they fell to dropping remarks
that were evidently aimed at Tracy, and some of them at the tinner.
The ringleader of this little mob was a short-haired bully and amateur
prize-fighter named Allen, who was accustomed to lording it over the
upper floor, and had more than once shown a disposition to make trouble
with Tracy. Now there was an occasional cat-call, and hootings, and
whistlings, and finally the diversion of an exchange of connected
remarks was introduced:
“How many does it take to make a pair?”
“Well, two generally makes a pair, but sometimes there ain’t stuff
enough in them to make a whole pair.” General laugh.
“What were you saying about the English a while ago?”
“Oh, nothing, the English are all right, only--I--”
“What was it you said about them?”
“Oh, I only said they swallow well.”
“Swallow better than other people?”
“Oh, yes, the English swallow a good deal better than other people.”
“What is it they swallow best?”
“Oh, insults.” Another general laugh.
“Pretty hard to make ‘em fight, ain’t it?”
“No, taint hard to make ‘em fight.”
“Ain’t it, really?”
“No, taint hard. It’s impossible.” Another laugh.
“This one’s kind of spiritless, that’s certain.”
“Couldn’t be the other way--in his case.”
“Why?”
“Don’t you know the secret of his birth?”
“No! has he got a secret of his birth?”
“You bet he has.”
“What is it?”
“His father was a wax-figger.”
Allen came strolling by where the pair were sitting; stopped, and said
to the tinner;
“How are you off for friends, these days?”
“Well enough off.”
“Got a good many?”
“Well, as many as I need.”
“A friend is valuable, sometimes--as a protector, you know. What do you
reckon would happen if I was to snatch your cap off and slap you in the
face with it?”
“Please don’t trouble me, Mr. Allen, I ain’t doing anything to you.”
“You answer me! What do you reckon would happen?”
“Well, I don’t know.”
Tracy spoke up with a good deal of deliberation and said:
“Don’t trouble the young fellow, I can tell you what would happen.”
“Oh, you can, can you? Boys, Johnny Bull can tell us what would happen
if I was to snatch this chump’s cap off and slap him in the face with
it. Now you’ll see.”
He snatched the cap and struck the youth in the face, and before he
could inquire what was going to happen, it had already happened, and he
was warming the tin with the broad of his back. Instantly there was a
rush, and shouts of:
“A ring, a ring, make a ring! Fair play all round! Johnny’s grit; give
him a chance.”
The ring was quickly chalked on the tin, and Tracy found himself as
eager to begin as he could have been if his antagonist had been a prince
instead of a mechanic. At bottom he was a little surprised at this,
because although his theories had been all in that direction for some
time, he was not prepared to find himself actually eager to measure
strength with quite so common a man as this ruffian. In a moment all the
windows in the neighborhood were filled with people, and the roofs also.
The men squared off, and the fight began. But Allen stood no chance
whatever, against the young Englishman. Neither in muscle nor in science
was he his equal. He measured his length on the tin time and again; in
fact, as fast as he could get up he went down again, and the applause
was kept up in liberal fashion from all the neighborhood around.
Finally, Allen had to be helped up. Then Tracy declined to punish him
further and the fight was at an end. Allen was carried off by some of
his friends in a very much humbled condition, his face black and blue
and bleeding, and Tracy was at once surrounded by the young fellows,
who congratulated him, and told him that he had done the whole house
a service, and that from this out Mr. Allen would be a little more
particular about how he handled slights and insults and maltreatment
around amongst the boarders.
Tracy was a hero now, and exceedingly popular. Perhaps nobody had
ever been quite so popular on that upper floor before. But if being
discountenanced by these young fellows had been hard to bear, their
lavish commendations and approval and hero-worship were harder still to
endure. He felt degraded, but he did not allow himself to analyze the
reasons why, too closely. He was content to satisfy himself with
the suggestion that he looked upon himself as degraded by the public
spectacle which he had made of himself, fighting on a tin roof, for the
delectation of everybody a block or two around. But he wasn’t entirely
satisfied with that explanation of it. Once he went a little too far
and wrote in his diary that his case was worse than that of the prodigal
son. He said the prodigal son merely fed swine, he didn’t have to chum
with them. But he struck that out, and said “All men are equal. I will
not disown my principles. These men are as good as I am.”
Tracy was become popular on the lower floors also. Everybody was
grateful for Allen’s reduction to the ranks, and for his transformation
from a doer of outrages to a mere threatener of them. The young girls,
of whom there were half a dozen, showed many attentions to Tracy,
particularly that boarding house pet Hattie, the landlady’s daughter.
She said to him, very sweetly,
“I think you’re ever so nice.”
And when he said, “I’m glad you think so, Miss Hattie,” she said, still
more sweetly,
“Don’t call me Miss Hattie--call me Puss.”
Ah, here was promotion! He had struck the summit. There were no higher
heights to climb in that boarding house. His popularity was complete.
In the presence of people, Tracy showed a tranquil outside, but his
heart was being eaten out of him by distress and despair.
In a little while he should be out of money, and then what should he do?
He wished, now, that he had borrowed a little more liberally from that
stranger’s store. He found it impossible to sleep. A single torturing,
terrifying thought went racking round and round in his head, wearing a
groove in his brain: What should he do--What was to become of him? And
along with it began to intrude a something presently which was very like
a wish that he had not joined the great and noble ranks of martyrdom,
but had stayed at home and been content to be merely an earl and nothing
better, with nothing more to do in this world of a useful sort than an
earl finds to do. But he smothered that part of his thought as well as
he could; he made every effort to drive it away, and with fair success,
but he couldn’t keep it from intruding a little now and then, and when
it intruded it came suddenly and nipped him like a bite, a sting, a
burn. He recognized that thought by the peculiar sharpness of its pang.
The others were painful enough, but that one cut to the quick when
it came. Night after night he lay tossing to the music of the hideous
snoring of the honest bread-winners until two and three o’clock in the
morning, then got up and took refuge on the roof, where he sometimes got
a nap and sometimes failed entirely. His appetite was leaving him and
the zest of life was going along with it. Finally, one day, being near
the imminent verge of total discouragement, he said to himself--and took
occasion to blush privately when he said it, “If my father knew what my
American name is,--he--well, my duty to my father rather requires that
I furnish him my name. I have no right to make his days and nights
unhappy, I can do enough unhappiness for the family all by myself.
Really he ought to know what my American name is.” He thought over it a
while and framed a cablegram in his mind to this effect:
“My American name is Howard Tracy.”
That wouldn’t be suggesting anything. His father could understand that
as he chose, and doubtless he would understand it as it was meant, as
a dutiful and affectionate desire on the part of a son to make his old
father happy for a moment. Continuing his train of thought, Tracy said
to himself, “Ah, but if he should cable me to come home! I--I--couldn’t
do that--I mustn’t do that. I’ve started out on a mission, and I
mustn’t turn my back on it in cowardice. No, no, I couldn’t go home,
at--at--least I shouldn’t want to go home.” After a reflective pause:
“Well, maybe--perhaps--it would be my duty to go in the circumstances;
he’s very old and he does need me by him to stay his footsteps down the
long hill that inclines westward toward the sunset of his life. Well,
I’ll think about that. Yes, of course it wouldn’t be right to stay here.
If I--well, perhaps I could just drop him a line and put it off a little
while and satisfy him in that way. It would be--well, it would mar
everything to have him require me to come instantly.” Another reflective
pause--then: “And yet if he should do that I don’t know but--oh, dear
me--home! how good it sounds! and a body is excusable for wanting to see
his home again, now and then, anyway.”
He went to one of the telegraph offices in the avenue and got the first
end of what Barrow called the “usual Washington courtesy,” where “they
treat you as a tramp until they find out you’re a congressman, and then
they slobber all over you.” There was a boy of seventeen on duty there,
tying his shoe. He had his foot on a chair and his back turned toward
the wicket. He glanced over his shoulder, took Tracy’s measure, turned
back, and went on tying his shoe. Tracy finished writing his telegram
and waited, still waited, and still waited, for that performance to
finish, but there didn’t seem to be any finish to it; so finally Tracy
said:
“Can’t you take my telegram?”
The youth looked over his shoulder and said, by his manner, not his
words:
“Don’t you think you could wait a minute, if you tried?”
However, he got the shoe tied at last, and came and took the telegram,
glanced over it, then looked up surprised, at Tracy. There was something
in his look that bordered upon respect, almost reverence, it seemed to
Tracy, although he had been so long without anything of this kind he was
not sure that he knew the signs of it.
The boy read the address aloud, with pleased expression in face and
voice.
“The Earl of Rossmore! Cracky! Do you know him?”
“Yes.”
“Is that so! Does he know you?”
“Well--yes.”
“Well, I swear! Will he answer you?”
“I think he will.”
“Will he though? Where’ll you have it sent?”
“Oh, nowhere. I’ll call here and get it. When shall I call?”
“Oh, I don’t know--I’ll send it to you. Where shall I send it? Give me
your address; I’ll send it to you soon’s it comes.”
But Tracy didn’t propose to do this. He had acquired the boy’s
admiration and deferential respect, and he wasn’t willing to throw these
precious things away, a result sure to follow if he should give the
address of that boarding house. So he said again that he would call and
get the telegram, and went his way.
He idled along, reflecting. He said to himself, “There is something
pleasant about being respected. I have acquired the respect of Mr. Allen
and some of those others, and almost the deference of some of them on
pure merit, for having thrashed Allen. While their respect and their
deference--if it is deference--is pleasant, a deference based upon a
sham, a shadow, does really seem pleasanter still. It’s no real merit to
be in correspondence with an earl, and yet after all, that boy makes me
feel as if there was.”
The cablegram was actually gone home! the thought of it gave him an
immense uplift. He walked with a lighter tread. His heart was full of
happiness. He threw aside all hesitances and confessed to himself
that he was glad through and through that he was going to give up this
experiment and go back to his home again. His eagerness to get his
father’s answer began to grow, now, and it grew with marvelous celerity,
after it began. He waited an hour, walking about, putting in his time as
well as he could, but interested in nothing that came under his eye, and
at last he presented himself at the office again and asked if any answer
had come yet. The boy said,
“No, no answer yet,” then glanced at the clock and added, “I don’t think
it’s likely you’ll get one to-day.”
“Why not?”
“Well, you see it’s getting pretty late. You can’t always tell where
‘bouts a man is when he’s on the other side, and you can’t always find
him just the minute you want him, and you see it’s getting about six
o’clock now, and over there it’s pretty late at night.”
“Why yes,” said Tracy, “I hadn’t thought of that.”
“Yes, pretty late, now, half past ten or eleven. Oh yes, you probably
won’t get any answer to-night.”
CHAPTER XIV.
So Tracy went home to supper. The odors in that supper room seemed more
strenuous and more horrible than ever before, and he was happy in the
thought that he was so soon to be free from them again. When the supper
was over he hardly knew whether he had eaten any of it or not, and
he certainly hadn’t heard any of the conversation. His heart had been
dancing all the time, his thoughts had been faraway from these things,
and in the visions of his mind the sumptuous appointments of his
father’s castle had risen before him without rebuke. Even the plushed
flunkey, that walking symbol of a sham inequality, had not been
unpleasant to his dreaming view. After the meal Barrow said,
“Come with me. I’ll give you a jolly evening.”
“Very good. Where are you going?”
“To my club.”
“What club is that?”
“Mechanics’ Debating Club.”
Tracy shuddered, slightly. He didn’t say anything about having visited
that place himself. Somehow he didn’t quite relish the memory of that
time. The sentiments which had made his former visit there so enjoyable,
and filled him with such enthusiasm, had undergone a gradual change,
and they had rotted away to such a degree that he couldn’t contemplate
another visit there with anything strongly resembling delight. In fact
he was a little ashamed to go; he didn’t want to go there and find out
by the rude impact of the thought of those people upon his reorganized
condition of mind, how sharp the change had been. He would have
preferred to stay away. He expected that now he should hear nothing
except sentiments which would be a reproach to him in his changed mental
attitude, and he rather wished he might be excused. And yet he didn’t
quite want to say that, he didn’t want to show how he did feel, or show
any disinclination to go, and so he forced himself to go along with
Barrow, privately purposing to take an early opportunity to get away.
After the essayist of the evening had read his paper, the chairman
announced that the debate would now be upon the subject of the previous
meeting, “The American Press.” It saddened the backsliding disciple to
hear this announcement. It brought up too many reminiscences. He wished
he had happened upon some other subject. But the debate began, and he
sat still and listened.
In the course of the discussion one of the speakers--a blacksmith named
Tompkins arraigned all monarchs and all lords in the earth for their
cold selfishness in retaining their unearned dignities. He said that no
monarch and no son of a monarch, no lord and no son of a lord ought
to be able to look his fellow man in the face without shame. Shame for
consenting to keep his unearned titles, property, and privileges--at the
expense of other people; shame for consenting to remain, on any terms,
in dishonourable possession of these things, which represented bygone
robberies and wrongs inflicted upon the general people of the nation. He
said, “if there were a lord or the son of a lord here, I would like
to reason with him, and try to show him how unfair and how selfish his
position is. I would try to persuade him to relinquish it, take his
place among men on equal terms, earn the bread he eats, and hold of
slight value all deference paid him because of artificial position, all
reverence not the just due of his own personal merits.”
Tracy seemed to be listening to utterances of his own made in talks
with his radical friends in England. It was as if some eavesdropping
phonograph had treasured up his words and brought them across the
Atlantic to accuse him with them in the hour of his defection and
retreat. Every word spoken by this stranger seemed to leave a blister on
Tracy’s conscience, and by the time the speech was finished he felt that
he was all conscience and one blister. This man’s deep compassion for
the enslaved and oppressed millions in Europe who had to bear with the
contempt of that small class above them, throned upon shining heights
whose paths were shut against them, was the very thing he had often
uttered himself. The pity in this man’s voice and words was the very
twin of the pity that used to reside in his own heart and come from his
own lips when he thought of these oppressed peoples.
The homeward tramp was accomplished in brooding silence. It was a
silence most grateful to Tracy’s feelings. He wouldn’t have broken it
for anything; for he was ashamed of himself all the way through to his
spine. He kept saying to himself:
“How unanswerable it all is--how absolutely unanswerable! It is basely,
degradingly selfish to keep those unearned honors, and--and--oh, hang
it, nobody but a cur--”
“What an idiotic damned speech that Tompkins made!”
This outburst was from Barrow. It flooded Tracy’s demoralized soul
with waters of refreshment. These were the darlingest words the poor
vacillating young apostate had ever heard--for they whitewashed his
shame for him, and that is a good service to have when you can’t get the
best of all verdicts, self-acquittal.
“Come up to my room and smoke a pipe, Tracy.”
Tracy had been expecting this invitation, and had had his declination
all ready: but he was glad enough to accept, now. Was it possible that a
reasonable argument could be made against that man’s desolating speech?
He was burning to hear Barrow try it. He knew how to start him, and keep
him going: it was to seem to combat his positions--a process effective
with most people.
“What is it you object to in Tompkins’s speech, Barrow?”
“Oh, the leaving out of the factor of human nature; requiring another
man to do what you wouldn’t do yourself.”
“Do you mean--”
“Why here’s what I mean; it’s very simple. Tompkins is a blacksmith; has
a family; works for wages; and hard, too--fooling around won’t furnish
the bread. Suppose it should turn out that by the death of somebody in
England he is suddenly an earl--income, half a million dollars a year.
What would he do?”
“Well, I--I suppose he would have to decline to--”
“Man, he would grab it in a second!”
“Do you really think he would?”
“Think?--I don’t think anything about it, I know it.”
“Why?”
“Why? Because he’s not a fool.”
“So you think that if he were a fool, he--”
“No, I don’t. Fool or no fool, he would grab it. Anybody would. Anybody
that’s alive. And I’ve seen dead people that would get up and go for it.
I would myself.”
This was balm, this was healing, this was rest and peace and comfort.
“But I thought you were opposed to nobilities.”
“Transmissible ones, yes. But that’s nothing. I’m opposed to
millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.”
“You’d take it?”
“I would leave the funeral of my dearest enemy to go and assume its
burdens and responsibilities.”
Tracy thought a while, then said:
“I don’t know that I quite get the bearings of your position. You say
you are opposed to hereditary nobilities, and yet if you had the chance
you would--”
“Take one? In a minute I would. And there isn’t a mechanic in that
entire club that wouldn’t. There isn’t a lawyer, doctor, editor, author,
tinker, loafer, railroad president, saint--land, there isn’t a human
being in the United States that wouldn’t jump at the chance!”
“Except me,” said Tracy softly.
“Except you!” Barrow could hardly get the words out, his scorn so choked
him. And he couldn’t get any further than that form of words; it seemed
to dam his flow, utterly. He got up and came and glared upon Tracy in a
kind of outraged and unappeasable way, and said again, “Except you!”
 He walked around him--inspecting him from one point of view and then
another, and relieving his soul now and then by exploding that formula
at him; “Except you!” Finally he slumped down into his chair with the
air of one who gives it up, and said:
“He’s straining his viscera and he’s breaking his heart trying to get
some low-down job that a good dog wouldn’t have, and yet wants to let
on that if he had a chance to scoop an earldom he wouldn’t do it. Tracy,
don’t put this kind of a strain on me. Lately I’m not as strong as I
was.”
“Well, I wasn’t meaning to put--a strain on you, Barrow, I was only
meaning to intimate that if an earldom ever does fall in my way--”
“There--I wouldn’t give myself any worry about that, if I was you. And
besides, I can settle what you would do. Are you any different from me?”
“Well--no.”
“Are you any better than me?”
“O,--er--why, certainly not.”
“Are you as good? Come!”
“Indeed, I--the fact is you take me so suddenly--”
“Suddenly? What is there sudden about it? It isn’t a difficult question
is it? Or doubtful? Just measure us on the only fair lines--the lines
of merit--and of course you’ll admit that a journeyman chairmaker
that earns his twenty dollars a week, and has had the good and genuine
culture of contact with men, and care, and hardship, and failure, and
success, and downs and ups and ups and downs, is just a trifle the
superior of a young fellow like you, who doesn’t know how to do anything
that’s valuable, can’t earn his living in any secure and steady way,
hasn’t had any experience of life and its seriousness, hasn’t any
culture but the artificial culture of books, which adorns but doesn’t
really educate--come! if I wouldn’t scorn an earldom, what the devil
right have you to do it!”
Tracy dissembled his joy, though he wanted to thank the chair-maker
for that last remark. Presently a thought struck him, and he spoke up
briskly and said:
“But look here, I really can’t quite get the hang of your notions--your
principles, if they are principles. You are inconsistent. You are
opposed to aristocracies, yet you’d take an earldom if you could. Am I
to understand that you don’t blame an earl for being and remaining an
earl?”
“I certainly don’t.”
“And you wouldn’t blame Tompkins, or yourself, or me, or anybody, for
accepting an earldom if it was offered?”
“Indeed I wouldn’t.”
“Well, then, whom would you blame?”
“The whole nation--any bulk and mass of population anywhere, in any
country, that will put up with the infamy, the outrage, the insult of
a hereditary aristocracy which they can’t enter--and on absolutely free
and equal terms.”
“Come, aren’t you beclouding yourself with distinctions that are not
differences?”
“Indeed I am not. I am entirely clear-headed about this thing. If I
could extirpate an aristocratic system by declining its honors, then I
should be a rascal to accept them. And if enough of the mass would join
me to make the extirpation possible, then I should be a rascal to do
otherwise than help in the attempt.”
“I believe I understand--yes, I think I get the idea. You have no blame
for the lucky few who naturally decline to vacate the pleasant nest they
were born into, you only despise the all-powerful and stupid mass of the
nation for allowing the nest to exist.”
“That’s it, that’s it! You can get a simple thing through your head if
you work at it long enough.”
“Thanks.”
“Don’t mention it. And I’ll give you some sound advice: when you
go back; if you find your nation up and ready to abolish that hoary
affront, lend a hand; but if that isn’t the state of things and you get
a chance at an earldom, don’t you be a fool--you take it.”
Tracy responded with earnestness and enthusiasm:
“As I live, I’ll do it!”
Barrow laughed.
“I never saw such a fellow. I begin to think you’ve got a good deal
of imagination. With you, the idlest fancy freezes into a reality at a
breath. Why, you looked, then, as if it wouldn’t astonish you if you did
tumble into an earldom.”
Tracy blushed. Barrow added: “Earldom! Oh, yes, take it, if it offers;
but meantime we’ll go on looking around, in a modest way, and if you
get a chance to superintend a sausage-stuffer at six or eight dollars a
week, you just trade off the earldom for a last year’s almanac and stick
to the sausage-stuffing.”
CHAPTER XV.
Tracy went to bed happy once more, at rest in his mind once more. He had
started out on a high emprise--that was to his credit, he argued; he had
fought the best fight he could, considering the odds against him--that
was to his credit; he had been defeated--certainly there was nothing
discreditable in that. Being defeated, he had a right to retire with
the honors of war and go back without prejudice to the position in
the world’s society to which he had been born. Why not? even the
rabid republican chair-maker would do that. Yes, his conscience was
comfortable once more.
He woke refreshed, happy, and eager for his cablegram. He had been
born an aristocrat, he had been a democrat for a time, he was now an
aristocrat again. He marveled to find that this final change was not
merely intellectual, it had invaded his feeling; and he also marveled
to note that this feeling seemed a good deal less artificial than any he
had entertained in his system for a long time. He could also have noted,
if he had thought of it, that his bearing had stiffened, over night, and
that his chin had lifted itself a shade. Arrived in the basement, he was
about to enter the breakfast room when he saw old Marsh in the dim light
of a corner of the hall, beckoning him with his finger to approach. The
blood welled slowly up in Tracy’s cheek, and he said with a grade of
injured dignity almost ducal:
“Is that for me?”
“Yes.”
“What is the purpose of it?”
“I want to speak to you--in private.”
“This spot is private enough for me.”
Marsh was surprised; and not particularly pleased. He approached and
said:
“Oh, in public, then, if you prefer. Though it hasn’t been my way.”
The boarders gathered to the spot, interested.
“Speak out,” said Tracy. “What is it you want?”
“Well, haven’t you--er--forgot something?”
“I? I’m not aware of it.”
“Oh, you’re not? Now you stop and think, a minute.”
“I refuse to stop and think. It doesn’t interest me. If it interests
you, speak out.”
“Well, then,” said Marsh, raising his voice to a slightly angry pitch,
“You forgot to pay your board yesterday--if you’re bound to have it
public.”
Oh, yes, this heir to an annual million or so had been dreaming and
soaring, and had forgotten that pitiful three or four dollars. For
penalty he must have it coarsely flung in his face in the presence of
these people--people in whose countenances was already beginning to dawn
an uncharitable enjoyment of the situation.
“Is that all! Take your money and give your terrors a rest.”
Tracy’s hand went down into his pocket with angry decision. But--it
didn’t come out. The color began to ebb out of his face. The
countenances about him showed a growing interest; and some of them
a heightened satisfaction. There was an uncomfortable pause--then he
forced out, with difficulty, the words:
“I’ve--been robbed!”
Old Marsh’s eyes flamed up with Spanish fire, and he exclaimed:
“Robbed, is it? That’s your tune? It’s too old--been played in this
house too often; everybody plays it that can’t get work when he wants
it, and won’t work when he can get it. Trot out Mr. Allen, somebody,
and let him take a toot at it. It’s his turn next, he forgot, too, last
night. I’m laying for him.”
One of the negro women came scrambling down stairs as pale as a sorrel
horse with consternation and excitement:
“Misto Marsh, Misto Allen’s skipped out!”
“What!”
“Yes-sah, and cleaned out his room clean; tuck bofe towels en de soap!”
“You lie, you hussy!”
“It’s jes’ so, jes’ as I tells you--en Misto Summer’s socks is gone, en
Misto Naylor’s yuther shirt.”
Mr. Marsh was at boiling point by this time. He turned upon Tracy:
“Answer up now--when are you going to settle?”
“To-day--since you seem to be in a hurry.”
“To-day is it? Sunday--and you out of work? I like that. Come--where are
you going to get the money?”
Tracy’s spirit was rising again. He proposed to impress these people:
“I am expecting a cablegram from home.”
Old Marsh was caught out, with the surprise of it. The idea was so
immense, so extravagant, that he couldn’t get his breath at first. When
he did get it, it came rancid with sarcasm.
“A cablegram--think of it, ladies and gents, he’s expecting a cablegram!
He’s expecting a cablegram--this duffer, this scrub, this bilk! From
his father--eh? Yes--without a doubt. A dollar or two a word--oh, that’s
nothing--they don’t mind a little thing like that--this kind’s fathers
don’t. Now his father is--er--well, I reckon his father--”
“My father is an English earl!”
The crowd fell back aghast-aghast at the sublimity of the young loafer’s
“cheek.” Then they burst into a laugh that made the windows rattle.
Tracy was too angry to realize that he had done a foolish thing. He
said:
“Stand aside, please. I--”
“Wait a minute, your lordship,” said Marsh, bowing low, “where is your
lordship going?”
“For the cablegram. Let me pass.”
“Excuse me, your lordship, you’ll stay right where you are.”
“What do you mean by that?”
“I mean that I didn’t begin to keep boarding-house yesterday. It means
that I am not the kind that can be taken in by every hack-driver’s son
that comes loafing over here because he can’t bum a living at home. It
means that you can’t skip out on any such--”
Tracy made a step toward the old man, but Mrs. Marsh sprang between, and
said:
“Don’t, Mr. Tracy, please.” She turned to her husband and said, “Do
bridle your tongue. What has he done to be treated so? Can’t you see he
has lost his mind, with trouble and distress? He’s not responsible.”
“Thank your kind heart, madam, but I’ve not lost my mind; and if I can
have the mere privilege of stepping to the telegraph office--”
“Well, you can’t,” cried Marsh.
“--or sending--”
“Sending! That beats everything. If there’s anybody that’s fool enough
to go on such a chuckle-headed errand--”
“Here comes Mr. Barrow--he will go for me. Barrow--”
A brisk fire of exclamations broke out--
“Say, Barrow, he’s expecting a cablegram!”
“Cablegram from his father, you know!”
“Yes--cablegram from the wax-figger!”
“And say, Barrow, this fellow’s an earl--take off your hat, pull down
your vest!”
“Yes, he’s come off and forgot his crown, that he wears Sundays. He’s
cabled over to his pappy to send it.”
“You step out and get that cablegram, Barrow; his majesty’s a little
lame to-day.”
“Oh stop,” cried Barrow; “give the man a chance.” He turned, and said
with some severity, “Tracy, what’s the matter with you? What kind of
foolishness is this you’ve been talking. You ought to have more sense.”
“I’ve not been talking foolishness; and if you’ll go to the telegraph
office--”
“Oh; don’t talk so. I’m your friend in trouble and out of it, before
your face and behind your back, for anything in reason; but you’ve lost
your head, you see, and this moonshine about a cablegram--”
“I’ll go there and ask for it!”
“Thank you from the bottom of my heart, Brady. Here, I’ll give you a
Written order for it. Fly, now, and fetch it. We’ll soon see!”
Brady flew. Immediately the sort of quiet began to steal over the crowd
which means dawning doubt, misgiving; and might be translated into the
words, “Maybe he is expecting a cablegram--maybe he has got a father
somewhere--maybe we’ve been just a little too fresh, just a shade too
‘previous’!”
Loud talk ceased; then the mutterings and low murmurings and whisperings
died out. The crowd began to crumble apart. By ones and twos the
fragments drifted to the breakfast table. Barrow tried to bring Tracy
in; but he said:
“Not yet, Barrow--presently.”
Mrs. Marsh and Hattie tried, offering gentle and kindly persuasions; but
he said;
“I would rather wait--till he comes.”
Even old Marsh began to have suspicions that maybe he had been a trifle
too “brash,” as he called it in the privacy of his soul, and he pulled
himself together and started toward Tracy with invitation in his eyes;
but Tracy warned him off with a gesture which was quite positive and
eloquent. Then followed the stillest quarter of an hour which had ever
been known in that house at that time of day. It was so still, and so
solemn withal, that when somebody’s cup slipped from his fingers and
landed in his plate the shock made people start, and the sharp sound
seemed as indecorous there and as out of place as if a coffin and
mourners were imminent and being waited for. And at last when Brady’s
feet came clattering down the stairs the sacrilege seemed unbearable.
Everybody rose softly and turned toward the door, where stood Tracy;
then with a common impulse, moved a step or two in that direction, and
stopped. While they gazed, young Brady arrived, panting, and put
into Tracy’s hand,--sure enough--an envelope. Tracy fastened a bland
victorious eye upon the gazers, and kept it there till one by one they
dropped their eyes, vanquished and embarrassed. Then he tore open the
telegram and glanced at its message. The yellow paper fell from his
fingers and fluttered to the floor, and his face turned white. There was
nothing there but one word--
“Thanks.”
The humorist of the house, the tall, raw-boned Billy Nash, caulker from
the navy yard, was standing in the rear of the crowd. In the midst of
the pathetic silence that was now brooding over the place and moving
some few hearts there toward compassion, he began to whimper, then he
put his handkerchief to his eyes and buried his face in the neck of the
bashfulest young fellow in the company, a navy-yard blacksmith, shrieked
“Oh, pappy, how could you!” and began to bawl like a teething baby, if
one may imagine a baby with the energy and the devastating voice of a
jackass.
So perfect was that imitation of a child’s cry, and so vast the scale of
it and so ridiculous the aspect of the performer, that all gravity was
swept from the place as if by a hurricane, and almost everybody there
joined in the crash of laughter provoked by the exhibition. Then the
small mob began to take its revenge--revenge for the discomfort and
apprehension it had brought upon itself by its own too rash freshness
of a little while before. It guyed its poor victim, baited him, worried
him, as dogs do with a cornered cat. The victim answered back with
defiances and challenges which included everybody, and which only gave
the sport new spirit and variety; but when he changed his tactics and
began to single out individuals and invite them by name, the fun lost
its funniness and the interest of the show died out, along with the
noise.
Finally Marsh was about to take an innings, but Barrow said:
“Never mind, now--leave him alone. You’ve no account with him but a
money account. I’ll take care of that myself.”
The distressed and worried landlady gave Barrow a fervently grateful
look for his championship of the abused stranger; and the pet of the
house, a very prism in her cheap but ravishing Sunday rig, blew him a
kiss from the tips of her fingers and said, with the darlingest smile
and a sweet little toss of her head:
“You’re the only man here, and I’m going to set my cap for you, you dear
old thing!”
“For shame, Puss! How you talk! I never saw such a child!”
It took a good deal of argument and persuasion--that is to say, petting,
under these disguises--to get Tracy to entertain the idea of breakfast.
He at first said he would never eat again in that house; and added that
he had enough firmness of character, he trusted, to enable him to starve
like a man when the alternative was to eat insult with his bread.
When he had finished his breakfast, Barrow took him to his room,
furnished him a pipe, and said cheerily:
“Now, old fellow, take in your battle-flag out of the wet, you’re not in
the hostile camp any more. You’re a little upset by your troubles, and
that’s natural enough, but don’t let your mind run on them anymore than
you can help; drag your thoughts away from your troubles by the ears, by
the heels, or any other way, so you manage it; it’s the healthiest thing
a body can do; dwelling on troubles is deadly, just deadly--and that’s
the softest name there is for it. You must keep your mind amused--you
must, indeed.”
“Oh, miserable me!”
“Don’t! There’s just pure heart-break in that tone. It’s just as I say;
you’ve got to get right down to it and amuse your mind, as if it was
salvation.”
“They’re easy words to say, Barrow, but how am I going to amuse,
entertain, divert a mind that finds itself suddenly assaulted and
overwhelmed by disasters of a sort not dreamed of and not provided for?
No--no, the bare idea of amusement is repulsive to my feelings: Let us
talk of death and funerals.”
“No--not yet. That would be giving up the ship. We’ll not give up the
ship yet. I’m going to amuse you; I sent Brady out for the wherewithal
before you finished breakfast.”
“You did? What is it?”
“Come, this is a good sign--curiosity. Oh, there’s hope for you yet.”
CHAPTER XVI.
Brady arrived with a box, and departed, after saying, “They’re finishing
one up, but they’ll be along as soon as it’s done.”
Barrow took a frameless oil portrait a foot square from the box, set it
up in a good light, without comment, and reached for another, taking a
furtive glance at Tracy, meantime. The stony solemnity in Tracy’s face
remained as it was, and gave out no sign of interest. Barrow placed
the second portrait beside the first, and stole another glance while
reaching for a third. The stone image softened, a shade. No. 3 forced
the ghost of a smile, No. 4 swept indifference wholly away, and No. 5
started a laugh which was still in good and hearty condition when No. 14
took its place in the row.
“Oh, you’re all right, yet,” said Barrow. “You see you’re not past
amusement.”
The pictures were fearful, as to color, and atrocious as to drawing
and expression; but the feature which squelched animosity and made them
funny was a feature which could not achieve its full force in a single
picture, but required the wonder-working assistance of repetition. One
loudly dressed mechanic in stately attitude, with his hand on a cannon,
ashore, and a ship riding at anchor in the offing,--this is merely odd;
but when one sees the same cannon and the same ship in fourteen pictures
in a row, and a different mechanic standing watch in each, the thing
gets to be funny.
“Explain--explain these aberrations,” said Tracy.
“Well, they are not the achievement of a single intellect, a single
talent--it takes two to do these miracles. They are collaborations; the
one artist does the figure, the other the accessories. The figure-artist
is a German shoemaker with an untaught passion for art, the other is a
simple hearted old Yankee sailor-man whose possibilities are strictly
limited to his ship, his cannon and his patch of petrified sea. They
work these things up from twenty-five-cent tintypes; they get six
dollars apiece for them, and they can grind out a couple a day when they
strike what they call a boost--that is, an inspiration.”
“People actually pay money for these calumnies?”
“They actually do--and quite willingly, too. And these abortionists
could double their trade and work the women in, if Capt. Saltmarsh could
whirl a horse in, or a piano, or a guitar, in place of his cannon. The
fact is, he fatigues the market with that cannon. Even the male market,
I mean. These fourteen in the procession are not all satisfied. One is
an old ‘independent’ fireman, and he wants an engine in place of the
cannon; another is a mate of a tug, and wants a tug in place of the
ship --and so on, and so on. But the captain can’t make a tug that is
deceptive, and a fire engine is many flights beyond his power.”
“This is a most extraordinary form of robbery, I never have heard of
anything like it. It’s interesting.”
“Yes, and so are the artists. They are perfectly honest men, and
sincere. And the old sailor-man is full of sound religion, and is as
devoted a student of the Bible and misquoter of it as you can find
anywhere. I don’t know a better man or kinder hearted old soul than
Saltmarsh, although he does swear a little, sometimes.”
“He seems to be perfect. I want to know him, Barrow.”
“You’ll have the chance. I guess I hear them coming, now. We’ll draw
them out on their art, if you like.”
The artists arrived and shook hands with great heartiness. The German
was forty and a little fleshy, with a shiny bald head and a kindly
face and deferential manner. Capt. Saltmarsh was sixty, tall, erect,
powerfully built, with coal-black hair and whiskers, and he had a well
tanned complexion, and a gait and countenance that were full of command,
confidence and decision. His horny hands and wrists were covered with
tattoo-marks, and when his lips parted, his teeth showed up white and
blemishless. His voice was the effortless deep bass of a church organ,
and would disturb the tranquility of a gas flame fifty yards away.
“They’re wonderful pictures,” said Barrow. “We’ve been examining them.”
“It is very bleasant dot you like dem,” said Handel, the German,
greatly pleased. “Und you, Herr Tracy, you haf peen bleased mit dem too,
alretty?”
“I can honestly say I have never seen anything just like them before.”
“Schon!” cried the German, delighted. “You hear, Gaptain? Here is a
chentleman, yes, vot abbreviate unser aart.”
The captain was charmed, and said:
“Well, sir, we’re thankful for a compliment yet, though they’re not as
scarce now as they used to be before we made a reputation.”
“Getting the reputation is the up-hill time in most things, captain.”
“It’s so. It ain’t enough to know how to reef a gasket, you got to make
the mate know you know it. That’s reputation. The good word, said at the
right time, that’s the word that makes us; and evil be to him that evil
thinks, as Isaiah says.”
“It’s very relevant, and hits the point exactly,” said Tracy.
“Where did you study art, Captain?”
“I haven’t studied; it’s a natural gift.”
“He is born mit dose cannon in him. He tondt haf to do noding, his
chenius do all de vork. Of he is asleep, and take a pencil in his hand,
out come a cannon. Py crashus, of he could do a clavier, of he could do
a guitar, of he could do a vashtub, it is a fortune, heiliger Yohanniss
it is yoost a fortune!”
“Well, it is an immense pity that the business is hindered and limited
in this unfortunate way.”
The captain grew a trifle excited, himself, now:
“You’ve said it, Mr. Tracy!--Hindered? well, I should say so. Why, look
here. This fellow here, No. 11, he’s a hackman,--a flourishing hackman,
I may say. He wants his hack in this picture. Wants it where the cannon
is. I got around that difficulty, by telling him the cannon’s our
trademark, so to speak--proves that the picture’s our work, and I was
afraid if we left it out people wouldn’t know for certain if it was a
Saltmarsh--Handel--now you wouldn’t yourself--”
“What, Captain? You wrong yourself, indeed you do. Anyone who has once
seen a genuine Saltmarsh-Handel is safe from imposture forever.
Strip it, flay it, skin it out of every detail but the bare color
