Grace did remember. Indeed, for some time she could think of nothing
else. It seemed clear enough to her that something more than friendship
was needed to account for the emotion she had seen in her sister’s face.
It was the first time in her recollection, too, that Constance had ever
been really angry, and Grace was not inclined to rouse her anger a
second time. She changed her tactics and ignored George Wood altogether,
never mentioning him nor reading anything that he sent to Constance. But
this mode of treating the question proved unsatisfactory, for it was
clear that Wood wrote often, and there was nothing to prove that
Constance did not answer all his letters. Fortunately the two sisters
were rarely alone together during the rest of the summer, and their
opportunities of disagreeing were not numerous. They were not in reality
as fond of each other as the world thought, or as they appeared to be.
Their natures were too different, and at the same time the difference
was not of that kind in which each character seems to fill a want in the
other. On the contrary the points in which they were unlike were
precisely those which most irritated the other’s sensibilities. They had
never before quarrelled nor been so near to a quarrel as they were in
the course of the conversation just recorded, but they were in reality
very far from being harmonious.

The devoted affection of their mother had kept them together while she
had lived, and, to some extent, had survived her, the memory of her
still exercising a strong influence over both. Constance, too, was
naturally very pacific, and rarely resented anything Grace said, in jest
or in earnest. Grace was often annoyed by what she called her sister’s
sweetness, and it was that very quality which prevented the other from
retaliating. She had now shown that she could turn, and fiercely, if
once aroused, and Grace respected her the more for having shown that she
had a temper.

Enough has been said to show that George’s fear that Constance would
think less well of him through Grace’s influence, was without
foundation. She even went so far as to send for him as soon as she
returned to New York in the autumn. It was a strange meeting, for there
was constraint on both sides, and at the same time each felt the
necessity of showing the other that no change had taken place for the
worse in their mutual relations.

Constance was surprised to find how very favourably George Wood compared
with the men she had seen during the summer—men all more or less alike
in her eyes, but nevertheless representing in her imagination the
general type of what the gentleman is supposed to be, the type of the
man of her own class, the mate of her own species. Grace had talked so
much, in the early part of the season, of George’s inferior social
position, of his awkward manner, and, generally, of his defects, that
Constance had almost feared to find that she had been deceived at first
and that there was a little truth in her sister’s words. One glance, one
phrase of his, sufficed to set her mind at rest. He might have
peculiarities, but they were not apparent in his way of dressing, of
entering a room or of pronouncing the English language. He was
emphatically what he ought to be, and she felt a keen pleasure in taking
up her intercourse with him at the point where it had been interrupted
more than four months earlier.

And now the exigencies of this history require that we should pass
rapidly over the period that followed. It was an uneventful time for all
concerned. George Wood worked with all his might and produced some very
creditable papers on a variety of subjects, gradually attracting a
certain amount of notice to himself, and advancing, as he supposed, as
fast as was possible in his career. Success, of the kind he craved,
still seemed very far away in the dim future, though there were not
wanting those who believed that he might not wait long for it. Foremost
among those was Constance Fearing. To her there was a vast difference
between the anonymous scribbler of small notices whom she had known a
year ago, and the promising young writer who appeared to her to have a
reputation already, because most of her friends now knew who he was, had
read one or more of his articles and were glad to meet him when occasion
offered. She felt indeed that he had not yet found out his best talent,
but her instinct told her that the time could not be very distant when
it would break out of its own impulse and surprise the world by its
brilliancy. That he actually possessed great and rare gifts she no
longer doubted.

Next to Constance, the Sherrington Trimms were the loudest in their
praise of George’s doings. Totty could talk of nothing else when she
came to the house in Washington Square, and her husband never failed to
read everything George wrote, and to pat him on the back after each
fresh effort. Even George’s father began to relent and to believe that
there might be something in literature after all. But he showed very
little enthusiasm until, one day, an old acquaintance with whom he had
not spoken for years, crossed the street and shook hands with him,
congratulated him upon his boy’s “doing so well.” Then Jonah Wood felt
that the load of anxiety he had borne for so many years was suddenly
lifted from his shoulders. People thought his boy was “doing well”! He
had not hoped to be told that spontaneously by any one for years to
come. The dreary look began to fade out of his grey face, giving way to
something that looked very like happiness.

George himself was the least appreciative of his own success. Even
Johnson, who was sparing of praise in general, wrote occasional notes in
his paper expressive of his satisfaction at his friend’s work and
generally containing some bit of delicate criticism or learned reference
that lent them weight and caused them to be reprinted into other
newspapers.

So the winter came and went again and the month of May came round once
more. George was with Constance one afternoon almost exactly a year from
the day on which he had first told her of his love. Their relations had
been very peaceful and pleasant of late, though George was not so often
alone with her as in former times. The period of mourning for the girls’
mother was past and many people came to the house. George himself had
gradually made numerous acquaintances and led a more social life than
formerly, finding interest, as Johnson had predicted, in watching people
instead of poring over books. He was asked to dinner by many persons who
had known his father and were anxious to make amends for having judged
him unjustly, and when they had once received him into their houses,
they liked him and did what they could to show it. Moreover he was
modest and reticent in regard to himself and talked well of current
topics. Insensibly he had begun to acquire social popularity and to
forget much of his boyish cynicism. He fancied that he went into society
merely because it sometimes gave him an opportunity of meeting
Constance, but he was too natural and young not to like it for itself.

“Shall we not go out?” he asked, when he found her alone in the
drawing-room.

Constance looked up and smiled, as though she understood his thought. He
was afraid that Grace would enter the room and spoil his visit, as had
happened more than once, and Constance feared the same thing. Neither
had ever said as much to the other, but there was a tacit understanding
between them, and their intimacy had developed so far that Constance
made no secret of wishing to be alone with him when he came to the
house. She smiled in spite of herself and George smiled in return.

“Yes. We can take a turn in the Square,” she said. “It will be—cooler,
you know.” A soft laugh seemed to explain the hesitation, and George
felt very happy.

A few minutes later they were walking side by side under the great
trees. Instinctively they kept away from the Fearings’ house—Grace might
chance to be at the window.

“It was almost a year ago,” said George, suddenly.

“What?”

“That I told you I loved you. You think differently of me now, do you
not?”

“A little differently, perhaps,” Constance answered. Then, feeling that
she was blushing, she turned her face away and spoke rapidly. “Yes and
no. I think more of you—that is to say, I think better of you. You have
done so much in this year. I begin to see that you are more energetic
than I fancied you were.”

“Does it seem to you as though what I have done has brought us any
nearer together, you and me?”

“Nearer? Perhaps. I do not quite see how you mean.” The blush had
disappeared, and she looked puzzled.

“I mean because I have begun—only begun—to make something like a
position for myself. If I succeed I hope we shall seem nearer yet—nearer
and nearer, till there shall be no parting at all.”

“I think you mistake a letter in the word—you talk as though you meant
dearer, more than nearer—do you not?” Constance laughed, and blushed
again.

“If I said that you were making love to me—to-day, as you said a year
ago—would you answer that you meant it—as I did?”

“What impertinence!” exclaimed Constance still laughing lightly.

“No—but would you?”

“I cannot tell what I should do, if you said anything so outrageous!”

“I love you. Is that outrageous and impertinent?”

“N—o. You say it very nicely—almost too nicely. I am afraid you have
said it before.”

“Often, though I cannot expect you to remember the exact number of
repetitions. How would you say it—if you were obliged to say it? I have
a good ear for a tune. I could learn your music.”

“Could you?” Constance hesitated while they paused in their walk and
George looked into her eyes.

She saw something there that had not been present when he had first
spoken, a year ago. He had seemed cold then, even to her inexperience.
Now there was both passion and tenderness in his look, and there was
sadness in his face.

“You do love me now,” she said softly. “I can see it.”

“And you, dear—will you not say the little words?”

Again she hesitated. Then she put out her hand and touched his very
gently. “I hate you, sir,” she said. But she pronounced the syllables
with infinite softness and delicacy, and the music of her voice could
not have been more sweet if she had said “I love you, dear.” Then she
laughed again.

“I could hear you say that very often, without being hurt,” said George
tenderly.

“I only wanted to show you how I should say those other words—if I
would,” she answered.

“Is that all? Well—if there is a just proportion between your hatred and
your love and your way of expressing them, your love must be——” he
stopped.

“Must be what?”

“As great as mine. I cannot find anything stronger than that to say—nor
could you, if you knew.”

“So you love me, then. I wonder how long it will last? When did it
begin?”

“The second time I saw you.”

“Love at second sight! How romantic—so much more original than at first
sight, and so much more natural. No—you must not take my hand—there are
people over there—and besides, there is no reason why you should. I told
you I hated you. There—walk like a sensible being and talk about your
work!”

“You are a strange creature, Constance.”

“Am I? Why do you call me Constance? I do not call you George—indeed I
do not like the name at all.”

“Nor I, if you do not—you can call me Constantine if you like. That name
would be more like yours.”

“I do not like my own. It makes me think of the odiously good little
girls in story books. Besides, what is it? Why am I called Constance? Is
it for the town in Switzerland? I was never there. Is it for the virtue
I least possess?”

“As your sister is called Grace,” suggested George.

“Hush! Grace is a very graceful girl. Take it in that way, and leave her
alone. Am I the English for Constantia? Come, give me an explanation!
Talk! Say something! You are leaving the burden of the conversation to
me, and then you are not even listening!”

“I was thinking of you—I always am. What shall I talk about? You are the
only subject on which I could be at all eloquent.”

“You might talk about yourself, for a change,” suggested Constance.

“But you say you hate me, so that you would not find an account of me
agreeable, would you?”

“I think my hatred could be made very accommodating, if you would talk
pleasantly—even about yourself.”

“I would rather make love to you than talk.”

“I have no doubt you would, but that is just what I do not want you to
do. Besides, you have done it before—without any result.”

“That is no reason for not trying again, is it?”

“Why try it at all?”

“Love is its own reason,” said George, “and it is the reason for most
other things as well. I love you and I am not in search of reasons. I
love you very, very much, with all my heart—so much that I do not know
how to say it. My life is full of you. You are everywhere. You are
always with me. In everything I have done since I have known you I have
thought of you. I have asked myself whether this would please you,
whether that would bring a smile to your dear face, whether these words
or those would speak to your heart and be sweet to you. You are
everything the world holds for me, the sun that shines, the air I
breathe. Without the thought of you I could neither think nor work. If a
man can grow great by the thought of woman’s love, you can make me one
of the greatest—if men die of broken hearts you can kill me—you are
everything to me—life, breath and happiness.”

Constance was silent. He spoke passionately, and there was an accent of
truth in his low, vibrating voice, that went to her heart. For one
moment she almost felt that she loved him in return, as she had often
dreamed of loving. That he was even now more to her than any living
being, she knew already.

“You like me,” he said presently. “You like me, you are fond of me, you
have often told me that I am your best friend, the one of whom you think
most. You let me come when I will, you let me say all that is in my
heart to say, you let me tell you that I love you——”

“It is very sweet to hear,” said Constance softly.

“And it is sweet to say as well—dearest. Ah, Constance, say it once, say
that it is more than friendship, more than liking, more than fondness
that you feel. What can it cost you to say it?”

“Would it make you very happy?”

“It would make this world heaven.”

Constance stopped in her walk, drew back a little from his side, and
looked at him.

“I will say it,” she said quietly. “I love you—yes, I do. No—do not
start—it is not much to hear, you must not be too hopeful. I will tell
you the truth—so, as we stand—no nearer. It is not friendship nor
fondness, nor mere liking. It is love, but it is not what it should be.
Do you know why I tell you? Because I care too much for your respect to
let you think I am a miserable flirt, to let you think that I am
encouraging you and drawing you on, without having the least heart in
the matter. You must think me very conscientious. Perhaps I am. Yes, I
have encouraged you, I have drawn you on, because I like to hear you say
what you so often say of late, that you love me. It is very sweet to
hear, as I told you just now. And, do you know? I wish I could say the
same things to you, and feel them. But I do not love you enough, I am
not sure of my love, it is greater to-day and less to-morrow, and I will
not give you little where you give me so much. You know my secret now.
You may hope, if you will. I am not deceiving you. I may love you more
and more, and the day when I feel that it is all strong and true and
whole and sound and unchangeable I will marry you. But I will not
promise. I will not run the risk so long as I feel that my love may turn
again into friendship next week—or next year. Do you see? Have you
understood me? Is it all clear now?”

“I understand your words, dear, but not your heart. I thank you——”

“No. Do not thank me. Come, let us walk on, slowly. Do you know that it
has been the same with you, though you will not admit it? You did not
love me a year ago, as you do now, did you?”

“No. That was impossible. I love you more and more every day, every
week, every month.”

“A year ago it would have been quite possible for you to have forgotten
me and loved some other woman. You did not look at me as you do now.
Your voice had not the same ring in it.”

“I daresay not—I have changed. I can feel it.”

“Yes, and it is because I have watched you changing in one way, that I
am afraid I may change in the other.”

George was very much surprised and at the same time was made very happy
by what she had told him. He had indeed suspected the truth, and it was
not enough to have heard her say the words “I love you” in the calm and
reasoning tone she had used. But on the other hand, there was something
brilliantly honest about her confession, that filled him with hope and
delight. If a woman so true once loved with all her heart, she would
love longer and better and more truly than other women can. So at least
thought George Wood, as he walked by her side beneath the trees in
Washington Square, and glanced from time to time at her lovely blushing
face.

“I thank you, dear, with all my heart,” he said after a long pause.

“There is little enough to thank me for. It seems to me that I could not
have done less. Would it have been honest and right to let things go on
as they were going without an explanation?”

“Perhaps not. But most women would have done nothing. I understand you
better now, I think—if a man can ever understand a woman at all.”

“I do not understand myself,” Constance answered thoughtfully. “Promise
me one thing,” she added, looking up quickly into his face.

“Anything in the world,” he said.

“Anything? Then promise me that what I have said to-day shall make no
difference in the way we meet, and that you will behave just as you did
before.”

“Indeed I will. What difference could it make? I do not see.”

“Well, it might. Remember that we are not engaged to be married——”

“Oh, that? Of course not. I am engaged to you, but you are not engaged
to me. Is that it?”

“Better not think of any engagement at all. It can do no good. Love me
if you will, but do not consider yourself bound.”

“If you will tell me how I can love you without feeling bound to you,
perhaps I will try and obey your commands. It must be a very complicated
thing.” George laughed happily.

“Well, do as you will,” said Constance. “Only be honest with me, as I
have been with you. If a time comes when you feel that you love me less,
tell me so frankly, and let there be an end. Will you?”

“Yes. I am not afraid. The day will never come.”

“Never is thought to be an old-fashioned word, I believe—like always.
Will you do something else to please me—something to pay me for my
honesty?”

“Anything—everything.”

“Write a book, then. It is time you did it.”

George did not answer at once. There was nothing which he really wished
more to accomplish than what Constance asked of him, and yet, in spite
of years of literary work and endless preparation, there was nothing for
which he really felt himself less fitted. He was conscious that
fragments of novels were constantly floating through his brain and that
scenes formed themselves and conversations arranged themselves
spontaneously in his mind when he least expected it; but everything was
vague and unsettled, he had neither plot nor plan, neither the persons
of the drama nor the scene of their action, neither beginning nor
continuation, nor end. To promise to write a book now, this very year,
seemed like madness. And yet he was beginning to fear lest he should put
off the task until it should be too late. He was in his twenty-seventh
year, and in his own estimation was approaching perilously near to
thirty.

“Why do you ask me to do it now?” he inquired.

“Because it is time, and because if you go on much longer with these
short things you will never do anything else.”

“I only do it as a preparation, as a step. Honestly, I do not feel that
I know enough to write a good book, and I should be sorry to write a bad
one.”

“Never mind. Make a beginning. It can do no harm to try. You have
written a great deal lately and you can leave the magazines alone for a
while. Shall I tell you what I would like?”

“Yes—what?”

“I would like you to write your book and bring the chapters as you write
them, and read them to me one by one.”

“Would you really like that?”

“Indeed I would.”

“Then I will do it. I mean that I will try, for I am sure I cannot
succeed. But—you did not think of that—where can we read without being
interrupted? I do not propose to give your sister the benefit——”

“In Central Park—on fine days. There are quiet places there.”

“Will you go there with me alone?” George asked in some surprise.

“Yes. Why not? Have I not told you that I love you—a little?”

“I bless you for it, dear,” said George.

And so they parted.




                              CHAPTER IX.


George felt like a man who has committed himself to take part in some
public competition although not properly prepared for the contest, and
during the night that succeeded his last meeting with Constance he slept
little. He had promised to write a book. That was bad enough,
considering that he felt so little fitted for the task. But, at least,
if he had undertaken to finish the work, revise it and polish it and
eliminate all the errors he could discover before bringing it to Miss
Fearing in its final shape, he could have comforted himself with the
thought that the first follies he committed would be known only to
himself. He had promised, however, to read the chapters to Constance as
he wrote them, one by one, and the thought filled him with dismay. The
charming prospect of numberless meetings with her was marred by the fear
of being ridiculous in her eyes. It was for her alone that the book was
to be written. It would be a failure and he would not even attempt to
publish it, but the certainty that the public would not witness his
discomfiture brought no consolation with it. Better a thousand times to
be laughed at by the critics than to see a pained look of disappointment
in Constance’s eyes. Nevertheless he considered his promise sacred, and,
after all, it was Constance who had driven him to make it. He had
protested his incapacity as well as he could. She would see that he had
been right and would acknowledge the wisdom of waiting a little longer
before making the great attempt.

At first, he felt as though he were in a nightmare, in a dim labyrinth
from which he had pledged himself to find an escape in a given time. His
nerves, for the first time in his life, played him false. He grew
suddenly hot, and then as suddenly cold again. Attempting to fix his
imagination, monstrous faces presented themselves before his eyes in the
dark, and he heard fragments of conversation in which there were long
sentences that meant nothing. He lit a candle and sat up in bed,
clasping his forehead with his long, smooth fingers, and beginning to
feel that he knew what despair really meant.

This then was the result of years of preparation, of patient practice
with the pen, of thoughtful reading and careful study. He had always
felt that he lacked the imagination necessary for producing a novel, and
now he felt sure of it. Johnson had told him that he was no critic, and
he had believed Johnson, because Johnson was himself the best critic he
knew. What then was he? A writer of short papers and articles. Yes, he
could do that. How easily now, at this very moment, could he think of
half a dozen subjects for such work, and how neatly he could put them
into shape, develop them in a certain number of pages and polish them to
the proper degree of brilliancy!

The morning dawned and found him still searching and beating his brain
for a subject. As the light increased he felt more and more nervous. It
was not in his nature to put off the beginning upon which he had
determined, and he knew that on that day he must write the first words
of his first book, or forfeit his self-respect for ever. There was an
eminently comic side to the situation, but he could not see it. His
dread of being ridiculous in the eyes of the woman he loved was great
enough to keep him from contemplating the absurdity of his case. His
sensations became intolerable; he felt like a doomed man awaiting his
execution, whose only chance of a reprieve lay in inventing a plot for a
novel. He could bear it no longer, and he got out of bed and opened his
window. The fresh air of the May morning rushed in and suddenly filled
the room with sweetness and his excited brain with a new sense of
possibilities. He sat down at his table without thinking of dressing
himself, and took up his pen. A sheet of paper lay ready before him, and
the habit of writing was strong in itself—too strong to be resisted. In
a few minutes that white sheet would be covered with words that would
mean something, and those words would be the beginning of his book, of
the novel he was about to write but of the contents of which he had not
the remotest conception. This was not the way he had anticipated the
commencement of the work that was to lay the first stone of his
reputation. He had fancied himself sitting down to that first page, calm
and collected, armed with a plot already thoroughly elaborated, charmed
beforehand with the characters of his own invention, carried away from
the first by the spirit of the action, cheered at every page by the
certainty of success, because failure was to have been excluded by the
multiplicity of his precautions. And here he was, without an idea in his
brain or the least subject for an excuse, beginning a romance which was
to be judged step by step by the person of all others most dear to him.

George dipped his pen into the ink a second time and then glanced at the
calendar. It was the fifth of May.

“Well,” he said aloud, “there is luck in odd numbers. Here goes my first
novel!”

And thereupon, to his own great surprise, he began writing rapidly. He
did not know what was coming, he hardly knew whether his hero had black
hair or brown, and as for the heroine, he had not thought of her at all.
But the hero was himself and was passing a night of great anxiety and
distress in a small room, in a small house, in the city of New York. The
reason of his anxiety and distress was a profound secret as yet, because
George had not invented it, but there was no difficulty in depicting his
state of mind. The writer had just spent that very night himself, and
was describing it while the sun was yet scarcely risen. He chuckled
viciously as he drove his pen along the lines and wrote out the ready
phrases that rushed into his brain. It was inexpressibly comic to be
giving all the details of his hero’s suffering without having the
smallest idea of what caused it; but, as he went on, he found that his
silence upon this important point was lending an uncanny air of mystery
to his first chapter, and his own interest was unexpectedly aroused.

It seemed strange, too, to find himself at liberty to devote as much
space as he pleased to the elaboration of details that attracted his
attention, and to feel that he was not limited in space as he had
hitherto been in all he wrote. Of course, when he stopped to think of
what he was to do next, he was as much convinced as ever that nothing
could come of his attempt beyond this first chapter. The whole affair
was like a sort of trial gallop over the paper, and doubtless when he
read over what he had written he would be convinced of its
worthlessness. He remembered his first fiery article upon the critics,
and the wholesale cutting and pruning it had required before he could
even submit it to Johnson. Then, however, he had written under the
influence of anger; now, he was conscious of a new pleasure in every
sentence, his ideas came smoothly to the surface and his own language
had a freshness which he did not recognise. In old times he had studied
the manner of great writers in the attempt to improve his own, and his
style had been subject to violent attacks of Carlyle and to lucid
intervals of Macaulay, he had worshipped at Ruskin’s exquisite shrine
and had offered incense in Landor’s classic temple, he had eaten of
Thackeray’s salt and had drunk long draughts from Dickens’s loving-cup.
Perhaps each had produced its effect, but now he was no longer conscious
of receiving influence from any of them. For the first time in his life
he was himself, for better, for worse, to fail or to succeed. His soul
and his consciousness expanded together in a new and intoxicating life,
as he struck those first reckless strokes in the delicious waters of the
unknown.

He forgot everything, dress, breakfast, his father, the time of day and
the time of year, and when he rose from his seat he had written the
first chapter of his novel. For some occult reason he had stopped
suddenly and dropped his pen. He knew instinctively that he had reached
his first halting-place, and he paused for breath, left the table and
went to the window. To his astonishment the sun was already casting
shadows in the little brick yard, and he knew that it must be past noon.
He looked at himself and saw that he was not dressed, then he looked at
his watch and found that it was one o’clock. He rubbed his eyes, for it
had all been like a dream, like a vision of fairyland, like a night
spent at the play. On the table lay many pages of closely-written
matter, numbered and neatly put together by sheer force of habit. He
hardly knew what they contained, and he was quite unable to recall the
words that opened the first paragraph. But he knew the last sentence by
heart, for it was still ringing in his brain, and strange to say, he
knew what was to come next, though he seemed not to have known it so
long as he held his pen. While he dressed himself the whole book,
confused in its details but clear in its general outline, presented
itself to his contemplation, and he knew that he should write it as he
saw it. It would assuredly not be a good novel, it would never be
published, and he was wasting his time, but it would be a book, and he
should keep his promise to Constance. He went downstairs and found his
father at luncheon, with a newspaper beside him.

“Well, George,” said the old gentleman, “I thought you were never going
to get up.”

“I am not quite sure that I have been to bed,” answered the young man.
“But I know that I have been writing since it was daylight and have had
no breakfast.”

“That is a bad way of beginning the day,” said Jonah Wood, shaking his
head. “You will derange your digestion by these habits. It is idle to
try such experiments on the human frame.”

“It was quite an unwilling experiment. I forgot all about eating. I had
some work that had to be done and so I put it through.”

“More articles?” inquired his father with kindly interest.

“I believe I am writing a book,” said George. “It is a new sensation and
very exhilarating, but I cannot tell you anything about it till I have
got on with it further.”

“A book, eh? Well, I wish you success, George. I hope you are well
prepared and that you will do nothing hasty or ill considered.”

“No, indeed!” exclaimed George with a laugh.

Hasty and ill considered! Could any two epithets better describe the way
in which he had gone to work? What rubbish it would be when it was
finished, he thought, as he attacked the cold meat and pickles. He
realised that he was desperately hungry, and unaccountably gay
considering that he anticipated a total failure, and it was surprising
that while he believed that he had been producing trash he should be in
such a hurry to finish his meal in order to produce more. Nothing,
however, seemed to be of the slightest importance, except to write as
fast as he could in order to have plenty of manuscript to read to
Constance at the first opportunity.

That night before going to bed he sat down in a comfortable chair, lit a
pipe and read over what he had written. It must be very poor stuff, of
course, he considered, because he had turned it out so quickly; but he
experienced one of the great pleasures of his life in reading it over.
The phrases sent thrills of satisfaction through him and his hand
trembled as he took up one sheet after another. It was strange that he
should be able to take such delight in what must manifestly be so bad.
But, bad or not, the thing was alive, and the characters were his
companions, whispering in his ear the words that they were to speak, and
bringing with them their individual atmospheres, while a sort of
secondary and almost unconscious imagination performed the
scene-shifting in a smooth and masterly fashion.

Three days later, he sat beside Constance Fearing upon a wooden bench in
a retired nook in Central Park. The weather was gloriously beautiful,
and the whole world smelt of violets and sunshine. Everything was fresh
and peaceful, and the stillness was broken only by the voices of
laughing children who played together a hundred yards away from where
the pair were sitting.

“And now, begin,” said Constance eagerly, as George produced his folded
manuscript.

“It is horrible stuff,” he said. “I had really much rather not read it.”

“Shall I go away?”

“No.”

“Then read!”

A great wave of timidity came over the young man in that moment. He
could not account for it, for he had often read to Constance the
manuscript of his short articles. But this seemed very different. He let
the folded sheets rest on his knee, and gazed into the distance, seeing
nothing and wishing that he might sink through the earth into his own
room. To judge from the sensation in his throat, he would not be able to
read at all. Then all at once, he grew cold. He had undertaken to do
this thing and he must carry it through, come what might. Constance
would not laugh at him, and she would be just. He wished that she were
Johnson, for it would be easier.

“I am waiting,” she said with a gentle smile. George laughed.

“I never was so frightened in my life,” he said. “I know what stage
fright is, now.”

Constance looked at him, and she liked his timidity more than she had
often liked his boldness. She felt that she loved him a little more than
before. Her voice was very soft when she spoke.

“Are you afraid of me, dear?” she asked.

The blood came to George’s face. It was the first time she had ever used
an endearing expression in speaking to him.

“Not since you have said that,” he answered, opening the sheets.

He read the first chapter, and she did not interrupt him. Occasionally
he glanced at her face. It was very grave and thoughtful, and he could
not guess what was passing in her mind.

“That is the end of the first chapter,” he said at last. “Do you like
it?”

“Go on!” she exclaimed quickly without heeding his question.

George did as he was bidden and read on to the end of what he had
brought. Whatever Constance might think of the work, she was evidently
anxious to hear it, and this fact at least gave him a little courage.
When he had finished, he folded up the sheets quickly and returned them
to his pocket, without looking at his companion’s face. He did not dare
ask her again for her opinion and he waited for her to speak. But she
said nothing and leaned back in her seat, apparently contemplating the
trees.

“Would you like to walk a little?” George asked in an unsteady voice. He
now took it for granted that she was not pleased.

“Do you want to know what I think of your three chapters?”

“Yes, please,” he answered nervously.

“They are very, very good. They are as much better than anything you
have ever done before, as champagne is better than soda-water.”

“Not really!” George exclaimed in genuine and overwhelming surprise.
“You are not in earnest?”

“Indeed I am,” Constance answered, with some impatience. “Do you think I
would say such a thing if I were not sure of it? Do you not feel it
yourself? Did you not know it when you were writing?”

“No—I thought, because it was written so fast it could not be worth
much. Indeed, I think so still—I am afraid that you are——”

“Mistaken?”

“Perhaps—carried away because you like me, or because you think I ought
to write well.”

“Nonsense. Promise me that you will not show this book to any one until
it is quite finished. I want you to take my word for it, to believe in
my judgment, because I know I am right. Will you?”

“Of course I will. To whom should I show it? I think I should be
ashamed.”

“You need not be ashamed if you go on in that way. When will you have
written more?”

“Give me three days—that will give you three chapters at least and take
you well into the story. You are not going out of town yet.”

“I shall not go until it is finished,” said Constance with great
determination. She had made up her mind that George would write better
if he wrote very fast, and she meant to urge him to do his utmost.

“But that may take a long time,” he objected.

“No it will not,” she answered. “You would not keep me in New York when
it is too hot, would you?”

“I will do my best,” said George.

He kept his word and three weeks later he sat in his room, in the small
hours of the morning, writing the last page of his first novel. He was
in a state of indescribable excitement, though he seemed to be no longer
thinking at all. The pen seemed to do the work of itself and he followed
the words that appeared so quickly with a feverish interest. He had not
the least idea how it would all look when it was done, but something
told him that it was being done in the right way. His hand flew from
side to side of the paper, and then stopped suddenly, why, he could not
tell. It was not possible that there should be nothing more to say, no
more to add, not one word to make the completion more complete. He
collected his thoughts and read the page over carefully to the end.
No—there was nothing wanting, and one word more would spoil the
conclusion.

“I do not understand why, I am sure,” he said to himself. “But that is
the end, and there is no doubt about it. So here it goes!
George—Winton—Wood—May 29th.”

He pushed the sheet away from him. Rather theatrical, he thought, to
sign his name to it, as though it were a real book, and as though the
manuscript were worth keeping. He had done it all to please Constance,
and Constance was pleased. In twenty-four days he had concocted a
novel—and he had never in his life enjoyed twenty-four days so much.
That was because he had seen Constance so often and because this
wretched scroll had amused her. Would she like the last three chapters?
Of course she would. He would take her the whole manuscript and make her
a present of it. That was all it could be good for. To publish such
stuff would be folly, even if any publisher could be found to abet such
madness. On the whole, he would prefer to throw the whole into the fire.
Nobody could tell. He might be famous some day in the far future, and
then when he was dead and gone and could not interfere any longer, some
abominable literary executor would get hold of this thing and print it,
and show the world what an egregious ass the celebrated George Winton
Wood had been when he was a very young man. But Constance could have it
if she liked, on condition that it was never shown to anybody.

Thereupon George tumbled into bed and slept soundly until ten o’clock on
the following morning, when he gathered up his manuscript, tied it up
into a neat bundle and went to meet Constance at their accustomed
trysting-place in the Park.
