I'm not going to say what kept me."
This also was a success in its way. It drew cries of protest and
reproach from the ladies, and laughter from the men. Wetmore made
himself heard above the rest. "Mrs. Westley, I know this man, and I
can't let you be made the victim of one of his shameless fakes. There
was really nothing kept him. He either forgot the time, or, what is
more probable, he deliberately put off coming so as to give himself a
little momentary importance by arriving late. I don't wish to be hard
upon him, but that is the truth."
"No, no," said the hostess in the applause which recognized Wetmore's
mischievous intent. "I'll not believe anything of the kind." From her
this had the effect of repartee, and when she asked with the
single-heartedness which Wetmore had praised among her friends as her
strongest point, and advised her keeping up as long as she possibly
could, "It isn't so, is it, Mr. Ludlow?" the finest wit could not have
done more for her. The general beamed upon her over the length of the
table. Mrs. Rangeley said at his elbow, "She's always more charming
than any one else, simply because she is," and he made no effort to
turn the compliment upon her as she thought he might very well have
done.
Under cover of what the others now began saying about different
matters, Ludlow murmured to Mrs. Westley, "I don't mind telling you.
You know that young girl you said you would go with me to meet when I
should ask you?"
"The little school-mistress?"
"Yes." Ludlow smiled. "She isn't so very little, any more. It was she
who kept me. I found a dispatch at my place when I got home to-day,
telling me she was coming, and would arrive at six, and there was no
time to trouble you; it was half-past when I got it."
"She's actually come then?" asked Mrs. Westlay. "Nothing you could say
would stop her?"
"No," said Ludlow with a shrug. He added, after a moment, "But I don't
know that I blame her. Nothing would have stopped me."
"And is there anything else I can do? Has she a pleasant place to
stay?"
"Good enough, I fancy. It's a boarding-house where several people I
know have been. She must be left to her own devices, now. That's the
best thing for her. It's the only thing."
XII.
In spite of his theory as to what was best for her, in some ways Ludlow
rather expected that Cornelia would apply to him for advice as to how
and where she should begin work. He forgot how fully he had already
given it; but she had not. She remembered what she had overheard him
say to her mother, that day in the Fair House, about the superiority of
the Synthesis of Studies, and she had since confirmed her faith in his
judgment by much silent inquiry of the newspapers. They had the Sunday
edition of the Lakeland Light at Pymantoning, and Cornelia had kept
herself informed of the "Gossip of the Ateliers," and concerning "Women
and Artists," "Artists' Summer Homes," "Phases of Studio Life," "The
Ladies who are Organizing Ceramic Clubs," "Women Art Students,"
"Glimpses of the Dens of New York Women Artists," and other æsthetic
interests which the Sunday edition of the Light purveyed with the
newspaper syndicate's generous and indiscriminate abundance. She did
not believe it all; much of it seemed to her very silly; but she
nourished her ambition upon it all the same.
The lady writers who celebrated the lady artists, and who mostly
preferred to swim in seas of personal float, did now and then offer
their readers a basis of solid fact; and they all agreed that the
Synthesis of Art Studies was the place for a girl if she was in earnest
and wished to work.
As these ladies described them the conditions were of the exacting sort
which Cornelia's nature craved, and she had her sex-pride in the
Synthesis, too, because she had read that women had borne an important
part in founding it; the strictest technical training and the freest
spirit of artistic endeavor prevailed in a school that owed its
existence so largely to them. That was a great point, even if every one
of the instructors was a man. She supposed that Mr. Ludlow would have
sheltered himself behind this fact if she had used the other to justify
herself in going on with art after he had urged that as a woman, she
had better not do so. But the last thing Cornelia intended was to
justify herself to Mr. Ludlow, and she vehemently wished he would not
try to do anything more for her, now. After sleeping upon the facts of
their meeting she felt sure that he would not try. She approved of
herself for not having asked him to call in parting. She was almost
glad that he hardly had given her a chance to do so.
It was Saturday night when Cornelia arrived, and she spent Sunday
writing home a full account of her adventures to her mother, whom she
asked to give Mrs. Barton the note she enclosed, and in looking over
her drawings, and trying to decide which she should take to the
Synthesis with her. She had a good deal of tacit argument about them
with Mr. Ludlow, who persisted in her thoughts after several definitive
dismissals; and Monday morning she presented herself with some drawings
she had chosen as less ridiculous than some of the others, and hovered
with a haughty humility at the door of the little office till the
janitor asked her if she would not come in and sit down. He had
apparently had official experience of cases like hers; he refused
without surprise the drawings which she offered him as her credentials,
and said the secretary would be in directly. He did not go so far as to
declare his own quality, but he hospitably did what he could to make
her feel at home.
Numbers of young people began to appear, singly and in twos and threes,
and then go out again, and go on up the stairs which led crookedly to
and from the corner the office was cramped into. Some of them went up
stairs after merely glancing into the office, others found letters
there, and staid chatting awhile. They looked at Cornelia with merely
an identifying eye, at first, as if they perceived that she was a new
girl, but as if new girls were such an old story that they could not
linger long over one girl of the kind. Certain of the young ladies
after they went up stairs came down in long, dismal calico aprons that
covered them to the throat, and with an air of being so much absorbed
in their work that they did not know what they had on. They looked at
Cornelia again, those who had seen her before, and those who had not,
made up for it by looking at her twice, and Cornelia began to wonder if
there was anything peculiar about her, as she sat upright, stiffening
with resentment and faintly flushing under their scrutiny. She wore her
best dress, which was a street dress, as the best dress of a village
girl usually is; her mother had fitted it, and they had made it
themselves, and agreed that it was very becoming; Mrs. Burton had said
so, too. The fashion of her hat she was not so sure about, but it was a
pretty hat, and unless she had got it on skewy, and she did not believe
she had, there was nothing about it to make people stare so. There was
one of these girls, whom Cornelia felt to be as tall as herself, and of
much her figure; she was as dark as Cornelia, but of a different
darkness. Instead of the red that always lurked under the dusk in
Cornelia's cheeks, and that now burned richly through it, her face was
of one olive pallor, except her crimson lips; her long eyes were black,
with level brows, and with a heavy fringe of lucent black hair cut
straight above them; her nose was straight, at first glance, but showed
a slight arch in profile; her mouth was a little too full, and her chin
slightly retreated. She came in late, and stopped at the door of the
office, and bent upon Cornelia a look at once prehistoric and fin de
siècle, which lighted up with astonishment, interest and sympathy,
successively; then she went trailing herself on up stairs with her
strange Sphinx-face over her shoulder, and turned upon Cornelia as long
as she could see her.
At last a gentleman came in and sat down behind the table in the
corner, and Cornelia found a hoarse voice to ask him if he was the
secretary. He answered in the friendly way that she afterwards found
went all through the Synthesis, that he was, and she said, with her
country bluntness, that she wished to study at the Synthesis, and she
had brought some of her drawings with her, if he wanted to look at
them. He took them, but either he did not want to look at them, or else
it was not his affair to do so. He said she would have to fill out a
form, and he gave her a blank which asked her in print a number of
questions she had not thought of asking herself till then. It obliged
her to confess that she had never studied under any one before, and to
say which master in the Synthesis she would like to study under, now.
She had to choose between life, and still-life, and the antique, and
she chose the antique. She was not governed by any knowledge or desire
in her choice more definite than such as come from her having read
somewhere that the instructor in the antique was the severest of all
the Synthesis instructors, and the most dreaded in his criticisms by
the students. She did not forget, even in the presence of the
secretary, and with that bewildering blank before her, that she wished
to be treated with severity, and that the criticism she needed was the
criticism that every one dreaded.
When the secretary fastened her application to her drawings, she asked
if she should wait to learn whether it was accepted or not; but he said
that he would send her application to the Members' Room, and the
instructor would see it there in the morning. She would have liked to
ask him if she should come back there to find out, but she was afraid
to do it; he might say no, and then she should not know what to do. She
determined to come without his leave, and the next morning she found
that the master whom they had been submitted to had so far approved her
drawings as to have scrawled upon her application, "Recommended to the
Preparatory." The secretary said the instructor in the Preparatory
would tell her which grade to enter there.
Cornelia's heart danced, but she governed herself outwardly, and asked
through her set teeth, "Can I begin at once?" She had lost one day
already, and she was not going to lose another if she could help it.
The secretary smiled. "If the instructor in the Preparatory will place
you."
Before noon she had passed the criticism needed for this, and was in
the lowest grade of the Preparatory. But she was a student at the
Synthesis, and she was there to work in the way that those who knew
best bade her. She wished to endure hardness, and the more hardness the
better.
XIII.
Cornelia found herself in the last of a long line of sections or stalls
which flanked a narrow corridor dividing the girl students from the
young men, who were often indeed hardly more than boys. There was a
table stretching from this corridor to a window looking down on the
roofs of some carpenter shops and stables; on the board before her lay
the elementary shape of a hand in plaster, which she was trying to
draw. At her side that odd-looking girl, who had stared so at her on
the stairs the day before, was working at a block foot, and not getting
it very well. She had in fact given it up for the present and was
watching Cornelia's work and watching her face, and talking to her.
"What is your name?" she broke off to ask, in the midst of a monologue
upon the social customs and characteristics of the Synthesis.
Cornelia always frowned, and drew her breath in long sibilations, when
she was trying hard to get a thing right. She now turned a knotted
forehead on her companion, but stopped her hissing to ask, "What?" Then
she came to herself and said, "Oh! Saunders."
"I don't mean your last name," said the other, "I mean your first
name."
"Cornelia," said the owner of it, as briefly as before.
"I should have thought it would have been Gladys," the other suggested.
Cornelia looked up in astonishment and some resentment. "Why in the
world should my name be Gladys?" she demanded.
"I don't know," the other explained. "But the first moment I saw you in
the office, I said to myself, 'Of course her name is Gladys.' Mine is
Charmian."
"Is it?" said Cornelia, not so much with preoccupation, perhaps, as
with indifference. She thought it rather a nice name, but she did not
know what she had to do with it.
"Yes," the other said, as if she had somehow expected to be doubted.
"My last name's Maybough." Cornelia kept on at her work without remark,
and Miss Maybough pursued, as if it were a branch of autobiography,
"I'm going to have lunch; aren't you?"
Cornelia sighed dreamily, as she drew back for an effect of her
drawing, which she held up on the table before her, "Is it time?"
"Do you suppose they would be letting me talk so to you if it weren't?
The monitor would have been down on me long ago."
Cornelia had noticed a girl who seemed to be in authority, and who sat
where she could oversee and overhear all that went on.
"Is she one of the students?" she asked.
Miss Maybough nodded. "Elected every month. She's awful. You can't do
anything with her when she's on duty, but she's a little dear when she
isn't. You'll like her." Miss Maybough leaned toward her, and joined
Cornelia in a study of her drawing. "How splendidly you're getting it.
It's very chic. Oh, anybody can see that you've got genius!"
Her admiration made no visible impression upon Cornelia, and for a
moment she looked a little disappointed; then she took a basket from
under the table, and drew from it a bottle of some yellowish liquid, an
orange and a bit of sponge cake. "Are you going to have yours here?"
she asked, as Cornelia opened a paper with the modest sandwich in it
which she had made at breakfast, and fetched from her boarding-house.
"Oh, I'm so glad you haven't brought anything to drink with you! I felt
almost sure you hadn't, and now you've got to share mine." She took a
cup from her basket, and in spite of Cornelia's protest that she never
drank anything but water at dinner, she poured it full of tea for her.
"I'll drink out of the bottle," she said. "I like to. Some of the girls
bring chocolate, but I think there's nothing like cold tea for the
brain. Chocolate's so clogging; so's milk; but sometimes I bring that;
it's glorious, drinking it out of the can." She tilted the bottle to
her lips, and half drained it at a draught. "I always feel that I'm
working with inspiration after I've had my cold tea. Of course they
won't let you stay here long," she added.
"Why?" Cornelia fluttered back in alarm.
"When they see your work they'll see that you're fit for still-life, at
least."
"Oh!" said Cornelia, vexed at having been scared for nothing. "I guess
they won't be in any great hurry about it."
"How magnificent!" said Miss Maybough. "Of course, with that calm of
yours, you can wait, as if you had eternity before you. Do you know
that you are terribly calm?"
Cornelia turned and gave her a long stare. Miss Maybough broke her bit
of cake in two, and offered her half, and Cornelia took it
mechanically, but ate her sandwich. "I feel as if I had eternity
behind me, I've been in the Preparatory so long."
On the common footing this drop to the solid ground gave, Cornelia
asked her how long.
"Well, it's the beginning of my second year, now. If they don't let me
go to round hands pretty soon, I shall have to see if I can't get the
form by modelling. That's the best way. I suppose it's my imagination;
it carries me away so, and I don't see the thing as it is before me;
that's what they say. But with the clay, I'll have to, don't you
know. Well, you know some of the French painters model their whole
picture in clay and paint it, before they touch the canvas, any way. I
shall try it here awhile longer, and then if I can't get to the round
in any other way, I'll take to the clay. If sculpture concentrates you
more, perhaps I may stick to it altogether. Art is one, anyhow, and the
great thing is to live it. Don't you think so?"
"I don't know," said Cornelia. "I'm not certain I know what you mean."
"You will," said Miss Maybough, "after you've been here awhile, and get
used to the atmosphere. I don't believe I really knew what life meant
before I came to the Synthesis. When you get to realizing the standards
of the Synthesis, then you begin to breathe freely for the first time.
I expect to pass the rest of my days here. I shouldn't care if I stayed
till I was thirty. How old are you?"
"I'm going on twenty," said Cornelia. "Why?"
"Oh, nothing. You can't begin too young; though some people think you
oughtn't to come before you're eighteen. I look upon my days before I
came here as simply wasted. Don't you want to go out and sit on the
stairs awhile?"
"I don't believe I do," said Cornelia, taking up her drawing again, as
if she were going on with it.
"Horrors!" Miss Maybough put her hand out over the sketch. "You don't
mean that you're going to carry it any farther?"
"Why, it isn't finished yet," Cornelia began.
"Of course it isn't, and it never ought to be! I hope you're not
going to turn out a niggler! Please don't! I couldn't bear to have
you. Nobody will respect you if you finish. Don't! If you won't come
out with me and get a breath of fresh air, do start a new drawing! I
want them to see this in the rough. It's so bold."
Miss Maybough had left her own drawing in the rough, but it could not
be called bold; though if she had seen the block hand with a faltering
eye, she seemed to have had a fearless vision of many other things, and
she had covered her paper with a fantastic medley of grotesque shapes,
out of that imagination which she had given Cornelia to know was so
fatally mischievous to her in its uninvited activities. "Don't look
at them!" she pleaded, when Cornelia involuntarily glanced at her
study. "My only hope is to hate them. I almost pray to be delivered
from them. Let's talk of something else." She turned the sheet over.
"Do you mind my having said that about your drawing?"
"No!" said Cornelia, provoked to laughter by the solemnity of the
demand. "Why should I?"
"Oh, I don't know. Do you think you shall like me? I mean, do you care
if I like you--very, very much?"
"I don't suppose I could stop it if I did, could I?" asked Cornelia.
The Sphinx seemed to find heart to smile. "Of course, I'm ridiculous.
But I do hope we're going to be friends. Tell me about yourself. Or,
have some more tea!"
XIV.
"I don't want any more tea, thank you," said Cornelia, "and there isn't
anything to tell."
"There must be!" the other girl insisted, clinging to her bottle with
tragic intensity. "Any one can see that you've lived. What part of
the country did you come from?"
"Ohio," said Cornelia, as the best way to be done with it.
"And have you ever been in Santa Fé?"
"Goodness, no! Why, it's in New Mexico!"
"Yes; I was born there. Then my father went to Colorado. He isn't
living, now. Are your father and mother living?"
"My mother is," said Cornelia; the words brought up a vision of her
mother, as she must be sitting that moment in the little front-room,
and a mist came suddenly before her eyes; she shut her lips hard to
keep them from trembling.
"I see, you worship her," said Miss Maybough fervidly, keeping her gaze
fixed upon Cornelia. "You are homesick!"
"I'm not homesick!" said Cornelia, angry that she should be so and
that she should be denying it.
"Mine," said the other, "died while I was a baby. She had Indian
blood," she added in the same way in which she had said her name was
Charmian.
"Did she?" Cornelia asked.
"That is the legend," said Miss Maybough solemnly. "Her grandmother was
a Zuñi princess." She turned her profile. "See?"
"It does look a little Indian," said Cornelia.
"Some people think it's Egyptian," Miss Maybough suggested, as if she
had been leading up to the notion, and were anxious not to have it
ignored.
Cornelia examined the profile steadily presented, more carefully: "It's
a good deal more Egyptian."
Miss Maybough relieved her profile from duty, and continued, "We've
been everywhere. Paris two years. That's where I took up art in dead
earnest; Julian, you know. Mamma didn't want me to; she wanted me to go
into society there; and she does here; but I hate it. Don't you think
society is very frivolous, or, any way, very stupid?"
"I don't know much about it. I never went out, much," said Cornelia.
"Well, I hope you're not conventional! Nobody's conventional here."
"I don't believe I'm conventional enough to hurt," said Cornelia.
"You have humor, too," said Miss Maybough, thoughtfully, as if she had
been mentally cataloguing her characteristics. "You'll be popular."
Cornelia stared at her and turned to her drawing.
"But you're proud," said the other, "I can see that. I adore pride. It
must have been your pride that fascinated me at the first glance. Do
you mind my being fascinated with you?"
Cornelia wanted to laugh; at the same time she wondered what new kind
of crazy person she had got with; this was hardly one of the
art-students that went wild from overwork. Miss Maybough kept on
without waiting to be answered: "I haven't got a bit of pride, myself.
I could just let you walk over me. How does it feel to be proud? What
are you proud for?"
Cornelia quieted a first impulse to resent this pursuit. "I don't think
I'm very proud. I used to be proud when I was little;--I guess you
ought to have asked me then."
"Oh, yes! Tell me about yourself!" Miss Maybough implored again, but
she went on as before without giving Cornelia any chance to reply. "Of
course, when I say mamma, I mean my step-mother. She's very good to me,
but she doesn't understand me. You'll like her. I'll tell you what sort
of a person she is." She did so at such length that the lunch hour
passed before she finished, and a hush fell upon all the babbling
voices about, as the monitor came back to her place.
Toward the end of the afternoon the monitor's vigilance relaxed again,
and Miss Maybough began to talk again. "If you want to be anything by
the Synthesis standards," she said, "you've got to keep this up a whole
year, you know." It was now four o'clock, and Cornelia had been working
steadily since eleven, except for the half-hour at lunch-time. "They'll
see how well you draw; you needn't be afraid of their not doing that;
and they'll let you go on to the round at once, perhaps. But if you're
truly Synthetic in spirit, you won't want to. You'll want to get all
you can out of the block; and it'll take you a year to do that; then
another year for the full length, you know. At first we only had the
block here, and a good many people think now that the full length
Preparatory encroaches on the Antique. Sometimes they even let you put
in backgrounds here, but it don't matter much: when the instructor in
the Antique gets hold of you he makes you unlearn everything you've
learnt in the full-length. He's grand."
A girl who was working at the other end of the table said with a
careless air, "They told me I might go up to the Antique to-day."
"Lida!" Miss Maybough protested, in a voice hoarse with admiration.
"Yes; but I'm not going."
"Why not? I should think you would be so proud. How did they come
to tell you?"
"Oh, they just said I might. But I'm not going. They're so severe in
the Antique. They just discourage you."
"Yes, that is so," said Miss Maybough, with a sigh of solemn joy. "They
make you feel as if you couldn't draw at all."
"Yes," said the other girl. "They act as if you didn't know a thing."
"I wouldn't go," said Miss Maybough.
"I don't know. Perhaps I may." The girl went on drawing, and Miss
Maybough turned to Cornelia again.
"Towards the end of your third year--or perhaps you don't like to have
your future all mapped out. Does it scare you?"
"I guess if it does I shall live through it," said Cornelia steadily;
her heart was beginning to quake somewhat, but she was all the more
determined not to show it.
"Well, the third year you may get to painting still-life, while you
keep up your drawing afternoons here. The next year you'll go into the
antique class, if they'll let you, and draw heads, and keep up your
still-life mornings. When they think you're fit for it, they'll let you
do an arm, maybe, and work along that way to the full figure; and that
takes another whole winter. Then you go into the life class, one of
them, all the morning, and keep drawing from the antique in the
afternoons, or else do heads from the model. You do a head every day,
and then paint it out, and begin another the next day. You learn to
sacrifice self to art. It's grand! Well, then, the next winter you keep
on just the same, and as many winters after that as you please. You
know what one instructor said to a girl that asked him what she should
do after she had been five years in the Synthesis?"
"No, I don't," answered Cornelia anxiously.
"Stay five years more!"
Miss Maybough did not give this time to sink very deep into Cornelia's
spirit. "Will you let me call you by your first name?"
"Why, I've hardly ever been called by any other," said Cornelia simply.
"And will you call me Charmian?"
"I had just as lief." Cornelia laughed; she could not help it; that
girl seemed so odd; she did not know whether she liked her or not.
"What poise you have got!" sighed Charmian. "May I come to see you?
Not a ceremonious call. In your own room; where we can talk."
Cornelia thought that if they went on as they had that day, they should
probably talk quite enough at the Synthesis; but she said, "Why, yes, I
should like to have you, if you won't care for my sitting on the trunk.
There's only one chair."
"Let me have the trunk! Promise me you'll let me sit on the trunk.
It's divine! Is it in a Salvation Hotel?"
"What do you mean?" asked Cornelia.
"Why, that's what they call the places that the Young Women's Christian
Association keep."
"No, it isn't. It's just a boarding-house." Cornelia wrote her address
on a piece of paper, and Charmian received it with solemn rapture. She
caught Cornelia in a sudden embrace and kissed her, before Cornelia
could help herself. "Oh, I adore you!" she cried.
They parted at the head of the stairs, where they found themselves
among groups of students arriving from all parts of the place, and
pausing for Synthesis gossip, which Cornelia could not have entered
into yet if she had wished. She escaped, and walked home to her
boarding-house with rather a languid pace, and climbed to her little
room on the fifth story, and lay down on her bed. It was harder work
than teaching, and her back ached, and her heart was heavy with the
thought of five years in the Synthesis, when she barely had money
enough for one winter. She was not afraid of the work; she liked that;
she would be glad to spend her whole life at it; but she could not give
five years to it, and perhaps ten. She was ashamed now to think she had
once dreamed of somehow slipping through in a year, and getting the
good of it without working for it. She tried to plan how she could go
home and teach a year, and then come back and study a year, and so on;
but by the end of the twenty years that it would take for ten years'
study at this rate, she would be an old woman of forty, ready to drop
into the grave. She was determined not to give up, and if she did not
give up, there was no other end to it; or so it seemed at the close of
her first day in the Synthesis.
She was very homesick, and she would have liked to give up altogether
and go home. But she thought of what people would say; of how her
mother, who would be so glad to see her, would feel. She would not be a
baby, and she turned her face over in the pillow and sobbed.
XV.
Cornelia thought that perhaps Mr. Ludlow would feel it due to Mrs.
Burton to come and ask how she was getting on; but if she did not wish
him to come she had reason to be glad, for the whole week passed, and
she did not see him, or hear anything from him. She did not blame him,
for she had been very uncouth, and no doubt he had done his whole duty
in meeting her at the depot, and seeing her safely housed the first
night. She wished to appreciate his kindness, and when she found
herself wondering a little at his not caring to know anything more
about her, she made much of it. If it was not all that she could have
imagined from his offer to be of use to her in any way he could, she
reminded herself that he had made that offer a very long time ago, and
that she never meant to use him. Beside, she was proud of having made
her start alone, and she knew which way she wished to go, though the
way seemed so hard and long at times. She was not sure that all the
students at the Synthesis were so clear as to their direction, but they
all had the same faith in the Synthesis and its methods. They hardly
ever talked to her of anything else, and first and last they talked a
good deal to her. It was against the rules to loiter and talk in the
corridors, as much against the rules as smoking; but every now and then
you came upon a young man with a cigarette, and he was nearly always
talking with a group of girls. At lunch-time the steps and window-seats
were full, and the passages were no longer thoroughfares. After the
first day Cornelia came out with the rest; Charmian Maybough said that
one could not get into the spirit of the Synthesis unless one did; and
in fact those who wished to work and those who would rather have
played, as it seemed to her, met there in the same æsthetic equality.
She found herself acquainted with a great many girls whose names she
did not know, in the fervor of the common interest, the perpetual glow
of enthusiasm which crowned the severest ordeals of the Synthesis with
the halo of happy martyrdom if not the wreath of victory.
They talked about the different instructors, how awful they were, and
how they made you cry sometimes, they were so hard on your work; but if
you amounted to anything, you did not mind it when you got to feel what
they meant; then you wanted them to be harsh. They said of one, "My!
You ought to see him! He can spoil your drawing for you! He just
takes your charcoal, and puts thick black lines all over everything. It
don't do to finish much for him." They celebrated another for sitting
down in front of your work, and drooping in silent despair before it
for awhile, and then looking up at you in cold disgust, and asking,
"What made you draw it that way?" as if it were inconceivable anybody
should have been willing to do it so. There were other instructors who
were known to have the idea of getting at the best in you by a
sympathetic interest in what you had tried for, and looking for some
good in it. The girls dramatized their manner of doing this; they did
not hold them in greater regard than the harder masters, but they did
not hold them in less, and some of them seemed to value an instructor
as much for the way he squinted his eyes at your drawing as for what he
said of it.
The young men did not talk so much of the instructors; they were more
reticent about everything. But some had formed themselves upon them,
and you could tell which each of these was studying under; or this was
what Charmian Maybough said.
She led Cornelia all about through the quaint old rookery, with its
wandering corridors, and its clusters of rooms distributed at random in
the upper stories of several buildings which the Synthesis had gathered
to itself as if by a sort of affinity, and she lectured upon every one
and everything.
It was against usage for students in the lower grades to visit the
upper classes when they were at work; but Charmian contrived stolen
glimpses of the still-life rooms and the rooms where they were working
from the draped models. For the first time Cornelia saw the irregular
hemicycle of students silently intent upon the silent forms and faces
of those strange creatures who sat tranced in a lifeless immobility, as
if the long practice of their trade had resolved them into something as
impersonal as the innumerable pictures studied from them. She even
penetrated with Charmian to the women's life-room, where you really
could not go while the model was posing, and where they had to time
their visit at the moment when the girls had left off for lunch, and
were chattering over their chocolate. They had set it out on the vacant
model-stand, and they invited their visitors to break bread with them:
the bread they had brought to rub out their drawings with. They made
Cornelia feel as much at home with them on the summit they had reached,
as she felt with the timidest beginners in the Preparatory. Charmian
had reported everywhere that she had genius, and in the absence of
proofs to the contrary the life-class accepted her as if she had. Their
talk was not very different from the talk of the students in the lower
grades. They spoke of the Synthesis, and asked her how she liked it,
but they did not wait for her to say. They began to descant upon their
instructors, and the pictures their instructors had last exhibited at
the Academy or the American Artists; and the things that the old
Synthesis pupils had there. Cornelia learned here that even actual
Synthetics had things in the exhibitions, and that in the last Academy
a Preparatory girl had sold a picture; she determined that before the
winter was over she would at least give the Academy a chance to refuse
the picture of another Preparatory girl.
She got Charmian to point out the girl who had sold the picture; she
was a little, quiet-looking thing; Cornelia saw some of her work in
round hands and she did not think it was better than she could do
herself. She took courage and dreamed of trying not to disappoint the
hopes of immediate performance, which she knew her mother would be
having in spite of her pretending the contrary. Her mother had written
that she must not work herself down, trying to learn too fast, but must
take the whole winter for it. Cornelia wondered what she would think if
she knew how little a person could be expected to do in one winter, in
the regular Synthesis way.
She was happier at the end of the first week than she had been at the
end of the first day, though she was very tired, and was glad to stop
at the earlier hour when most of the students left their work on
Saturday afternoon. She had begun to feel the charm of the Synthesis,
which every one said she would feel. She was already a citizen of the
little republic where the heaviest drudgery was sweet with a vague,
high faith and hope. It was all a strange happiness to her, and yet not
strange. It was like a heritage of her own that she had come into;
something she was born to, a right, a natural condition.
She did not formulate this, or anything; she did not ask herself why
the frivolities and affectations which disgusted her in the beginning
no longer offended her so much; she only saw that some of the most
frivolous and affected of her fellow-citizens were the cleverest; and
that the worst of them were better than they might have been where the
ideal was less generous. She did not know then or afterwards just why
some of them were there, and they did not seem to know themselves.
There were some who could reasonably expect to live by their art; there
were more who could hope to live by teaching it. But there were others
who had no definite aim or purpose, and seemed to think their study
would shape them to some design. They were trying it, they did not know
clearly why, or at least were not able to say clearly why. There were
several rich girls, and they worked from the love of it, as hard as the
poorest. There were some through whom she realized what Ludlow meant
when he spoke to her mother of the want that often went hand in hand
with art; there were others even more pitiful, who struggled with the
bare sufficiency of gift to keep within the Synthesis. But even among
the girls who were so poor that they had to stint themselves of food
and fire, for art's sake, there were the bravest and gayest spirits;
and some of these who could never have learned to draw well if they had
spent their lives in the Synthesis, and were only waiting till their
instructor should find the heart to forbid them further endeavor, were
so sweet and good that Cornelia's heart ached for them.
At first she was overawed by all the students, simply because they were
all older students at the Synthesis than she was. Then she included
them without distinction in the slight that she felt for the chatter
and the airs of some. After that she made her exceptions among them;
she begun to see how every one honored and admired the hard workers.
She could not revert to her awe of them, even of the hardest workers;
but she became more tolerant of the idlest and vaguest. She compared
herself with the clever ones, and owned herself less clever, not
without bitterness, but certainly with sincerity, and with a final
humility that enabled her to tolerate those who were least clever.
XVI.
When she got home from the Synthesis the first Saturday afternoon,
Cornelia climbed up the four flights of stairs that led to her little
room, and lay down to rest, as she promised Mrs. Burton she would do
every day; some days she did not. She had to lie on her bed, which
filled two-thirds of the room. There was a bureau with a glass, which
she could not see the bottom of her skirt in without jumping up; and a
wash-stand with a shut-down lid, where she wrote her letters and drew;
a chair stood between that and her trunk, which was next the door, and
let the door open part way.
It seemed very cramped at first, but she soon got used to it, and then
she did not think about it; but accepted it as she did everything else
in the life that was all so strange to her. She had never been in a
boarding-house before, and she did not know whether it was New York
usage or not, that her trunk, which the expressman had managed to leave
in the lower hall, should be left standing there for twenty-four hours
after his escape, and that then she should be asked to take some things
out of it so that it should not be too heavy for the serving-maids to
carry up to her room. There was no man-servant in the place; but the
landlady said that they expected to have a furnace-man as soon as it
came cold weather.
The landlady was such an indistinct quality, that it could seldom be
known whether she was at home or not, and when she was identifiably
present, whether she had promised or had not promised to do this or
that. People were always trying to see her for some reason or no
reason, and it was said that the best time to find her was at table.
This was not so easy; the meals had a certain range in time, and the
landlady was nominally at the head of the table; but those who came
early to find her made the mistake of not having come late, and if you
came late you just missed her. Yet she was sometimes actually to be
encountered at the head of the stairs from the kitchen, or evanescing
from the parlor; and somehow the house was operated; the meals came and
went, and the smell of their coming and going filled the hall-way from
the ground floor to the attic. Some people complained of the meals, but
Cornelia's traditions were so simple that she thought them a constant
succession of prodigies, with never less than steak, fish and hash for
breakfast, and always turkey and cranberry sauce for dinner, and often
ice-cream; sometimes the things were rather burnt, but she did not see
that there was much to find fault with. She celebrated the luxury in
her letters home, and she said that she liked the landlady, too, and
that they had got to be great friends; in fact the landlady reminded
the girl of her own mother in the sort of springless effectiveness with
which she brought things to pass, when you would never have expected
any result whatever; and she was gentle like her mother, and
simple-hearted, with all her elusiveness. But she was not neat, like
Mrs. Saunders; the house went at loose ends. Cornelia found fluff under
her bed that must have been there a long time. The parlor and the
dining-room were kept darkened, and no one could have told what
mysteries their corners and set pieces of furniture harbored. The
carpets, where the subdued light struck them, betrayed places worn down
to the warp. Mrs. Montgomery herself had a like effect of unsparing
use; her personal upholstery showed frayed edges and broken woofs,
which did not seriously discord with her nerveless gentility.
The parlor was very long and rather narrow, and it was crossed at the
rear by the dining-room which showed the table in stages of preparation
or dismantling through sliding-doors never quite shut. At intervals
along the parlor walls were set sofas in linen brocade and yellow jute;
and various easy and uneasy chairs in green plush stood about in no
definite relation to the black-walnut, marble-topped centre-table. A
scarf, knotted and held by a spelter vase to one of the marble mantles,
for there were two, recorded a moment of the æsthetic craze which had
ceased before it got farther amidst the earlier and honester ugliness
of the room. The gas-fixtures were of the vine-leaf and grape-cluster
bronze-age; some of the garlands which ought to have been attached to
the burners, hung loose from the parent stem, without the effort on the
part of any witness to complete the artistic intention. In the evening,
the lady-boarders received their gentlemen-callers in the parlor; their
lady-callers were liable at all times to be asked if they would not
like to go to the boarders' rooms, and whether they expressed this
preference or not, they were directed where to find them by the maid,
who then rapidly disappeared down the kitchen stairs.
In fact, the door-service at Mrs. Montgomery's was something she would
probably have deprecated if any one had asked her to do so. It was the
charge of a large, raw-boned Irish girl, who made up by her athletic
physique and her bass voice for the want of a man-servant on the
premises. She brow-beat visitors into acceptance of the theory that the
persons they came to see were not at home, especially if they showed
signs of intending to wait in the parlor while she went upstairs to
find out. Those who suffered from her were of the sex least fitted to
combat her. The gentlemen boarders seldom had callers; when they had,
their callers did not ask whether their friends were in or not; they
went and saw for themselves.
The gentlemen at Mrs. Montgomery's were fewer than the ladies, and they
were for several reasons in greater favor. For one thing they gave less
trouble: they had a less lively fear of mice, and they were not so apt
to be out of health and to want their meals sent up; they ate more, but
they did not waste so much, and they never did any sort of washing in
their rooms. Cornelia did not know who or what some of them were; but
she made sure of a theatrical manager; two or three gentlemen in
different branches of commerce; a newspaper writer of some sort, and an
oldish gentleman who had been with Mrs. Montgomery a great while, and
did not seem to be anything but a gentleman boarder, pure and simple.
They were all very civil and quiet, and they bore with the amiable
American fortitude the hardships of the common lot at Mrs.
Montgomery's, which Cornelia underwent ignorantly as necessary
incidents of life in New York.
She now fell asleep where she lay, and she was startled from her nap,
but hardly surprised, to hear her name spoken in the hall far below, as
if it were a theme of contention between the bass-voiced Irish girl and
some one at the street door, who supported the other side of the
question in low, indistinct, lady-like murmurs.
"No, she don't be in," said the Irish girl bluntly. The polite murmur
insisted, and the Irish girl said, with finality, "Well, then, yous can
go up yourselves and see; the room is right over the dure, four flights
up."
Cornelia jumped up and tried to pull her hair into a knot before the
glass. There came a tap at her door and the voice of Charmian Maybough
asked, "May I come in, Miss Saunders,--Cornelia?"
"Yes," said Cornelia, and she opened the door as far as her trunk would
let her.
Charmian pushed impetuously in. She took Cornelia in her arms and
kissed her, as if they had not met for a long time.
"Oh," she said, whirling about, so as to sweep the whole room with her
glance, before sinking down on Cornelia's trunk, "why can't I have
something like this? Well, I shall have, I hope, before I die, yet.
What made her say you weren't in? I knew you were." She rose and flew
about the room, and examined it in detail. She was very beautifully
dressed, in a street costume of immediate fashion, without a suggestion
of the æstheticism of the picturesque gown she wore at the Synthesis;
that had originality, but Cornelia perceived with the eye trained to
see such differences, that this had authority. Charmian could not help
holding and carrying herself differently in it, too. She was
exquisitely gloved, and Cornelia instinctively felt that her hat was
from Paris, though till then she had never seen a Paris hat to know it.
She might have been a little overawed by it, if the wearer had not
abruptly asked her what she thought of it.
"Well," said Cornelia, with her country directness, which was so
different from the other's abruptness, "I think it's about the most
perfect thing I ever saw."
Charmian sighed. "I saw you looking at it. Yes, it is a dream. But
it's a badge of slavery. So's the whole costume. Look how I'm laced!"
She flung open the jacket and revealed a waist certainly much smaller
than she had earlier in the day. "That's the way it goes through my
whole life. Mamma is dead set against the artistic, and I'm dead set
against the fashionable. As long as I'm at the Synthesis, I do as the
Synthetics do. I dress like the Synthesis, and I think like it, and I
act like it. As soon as I get home in the afternoon, I have to be of
the world worldly. I put on a Worth frock, and mamma would make me put
on a Worth spirit, if she could. I do my best to conform, because it's
the bargain, and I'll keep my word if it kills me. Now you see what a
double life I lead! If I could only be steeped in hopeless poverty to
the lips! If I could have a room like this, even! Sometimes I'm so
bewildered by the twofold existence I'm leading, I don't really know
what I'm saying. Those your things, of course?" She sprang from
Cornelia's trunk, which she had sank down upon again, and swiftly
traversed the sketches Cornelia had pinned about the wall. "What touch!
Yes, you merely have to live on, to be anything you like. It'll do
itself for you. Well, I suppose you'll have to see her." She turned
about to Cornelia with an air of deprecation. "Mamma, you know. She's
down stairs waiting for us. She thinks it right to come with me always.
I dare say it is. She isn't so very bad, you know. Only she insists
upon knowing all the girls I take a fancy to, herself. You needn't be
afraid of her."
"I don't know why I should be afraid of anybody," said Cornelia.
The darker corner of the long parlor was occupied by a young couple in
the earnest inquiry into each other's psychological peculiarities which
marks a stage of the passion of love. It obliged them to get very close
together, where they sat, she on a lounge and he in the chair, which he
kept pulling nearer and nearer; they fulfilled these conditions and
exchanged their observations with a freedom that ignored the presence
of the lady sitting somewhat severely upright between the two long,
front windows, exactly midway of the dingy lace curtains, trained
fan-wise on the carpet. They were not disturbed when Cornelia and
Charmian appeared; the young lady continued to dangle the tassel of a
cushion through her fingers, and the young man leaned toward her with
his face in his hand, and his elbow sunk in the arm of the lounge; but
the other lady rose at once and came quickly forward, as if escaping
from them. Beside the tall girls she looked rather little, and she was
decidedly blonde against their brunette color. She wore a veil that
came just between her upper and her lower lip, and that stirred lightly
when she spoke. She was dressed with the same authoritative fashion as
Charmian, but not so simply.
She did not wait for her daughter to speak, but took Cornelia's hand,
and said in a soft voice, "Miss Saunders? I am very glad we found you
at home. My daughter has been speaking to me about you, and we hoped to
have come sooner, but we couldn't manage together before."
"Won't you sit down?" asked Cornelia.
"No, I thank you," Mrs. Maybough returned, with a velvety tenderness of
tone that seemed to convey assent. "We shall be rather late, as it is.
I hope you're comfortably situated here."
"Oh, very," said Cornelia. "I've never been away from home before, and
of course it isn't like home."
"Yes," said Mrs. Maybough, "one misses the refinements of home in such
places." She turned and swept the appointments of the room, including
the students of psychology, with a critical eye.
"I wish I could come here," sighed the daughter. "If I could have a
room like Cornelia's, mamma! I wish you could see it."
"I'm glad you're pleasantly placed, Miss Saunders. I hope you're not
working too hard at the Synthesis. I understand the young ladies there
are so enthusiastic."
"Oh, no," Cornelia protested.
"Of course she is!" said Charmian. "Everybody works too hard at the
Synthesis. It's the ideal of the place. We woke her out of a nap, and I
know she was tired to death."
Cornelia could not deny it, and so she said nothing.
"Oh!" said Mrs. Maybough, non-committally; "that won't do." She paused,
without intermitting the scrutiny which Cornelia felt she had been
subjecting her to from the first moment through her veil. "You mustn't
wear yourself out." She paused again, and then while Charmian turned
away with an effect of impatience, she asked, "Do you ever go out on
Sundays?"
"Why, I don't know," Cornelia began, not certain whether Mrs. Maybough
meant walking out or driving out; young people did both in Pymantoning.
Mrs. Maybough pursued: "We receive on Thursdays, but we have a few
friends coming in to-morrow afternoon, and we should be very glad to
see you, if you have nothing better."
The invitation was so tentatively, so gingerly offered in manner, if
not in words, that Cornelia was not quite sure it had been given. She
involuntarily searched her memory for something better before she
spoke; for the first time in her life she was about to invent a
previous engagement, when Charmian suddenly turned and laid her arms
about her neck.
"You'll come, of course!"
"Charmian!" said Mrs. Maybough. It would have been hard to tell whether
