
The thought of going to Bonnydale was exceedingly pleasant to him, and
he allowed his mind to dwell upon each member of the family, and to
picture in his imagination the greeting they would all give him. Not to
the members of his family alone did he confine his thoughts; for they
included the beautiful Bertha Pembroke, whom, with her father, he had
taken from the cabin of a cotton steamer he had captured. He concluded
that the surgeon's certificate would shield him from adverse criticism,
after he had fully considered the matter.

The flag-officer of the Eastern Gulf Squadron was not off Mobile Point;
and Captain Breaker, as the senior officer present, was obliged to
dispose of his prizes himself. Some necessary repairs had to be made
upon both ships before anything could be done; and the carpenter and his
gang, with all the other seamen who could handle an axe or an adze, were
hurrying forward the work. The prize had lost her mizzen mast, her
steering gear had been knocked to pieces both forward and aft, she had
been riddled in a dozen places, and shot-holes in the hull had been
hastily plugged during the action.

Her Armstrong gun amidships had been disabled by Blumenhoff at his first
fire. Christy had not found the opportunity to examine this piece, as he
desired; but Mr. Graines had done so for him; and it was found that the
gun carriage had been knocked into a shapeless mass so that it could not
be put in condition for use. The machinists from the engine room of both
vessels, for those of the Tallahatchie had no feeling on the subject,
were restoring the steering apparatus, and were likely to have the work
completed the next day.

Captain Breaker was in great doubt as to what he ought to do with
Colonel Passford. He was certainly a non-combatant; and it could not be
shown that he had any mission to Nassau or elsewhere in the service of
the Confederacy, though it would have been otherwise if the steamer and
the West Wind had not been captures, for he was to sell the cotton in
England, and purchase a steamer with the proceeds; but his mission ended
with the loss of the vessels. He finally decided to send him to Fort
Morgan under a flag of truce.

Before he left he called upon his nephew. He was still in a state
of despondency over his own losses, and his failures to benefit the
Confederacy, whose loss he counted as greater than his own. He stated
that the commander had announced his intention to send him on shore.
Christy had seen him but for a moment, for his uncle had not desired to
meet him again.

"We will not talk about the war, Uncle Homer," said Christy. "How are
Aunt Lydia, Corny, and Gerty? I hope they are all very well."

"Your aunt is not very well, for the hardships of the war have worn upon
her. Except Uncle Jerry and Aunty Chloe, the cook, all our negroes have
left us, or been taken by the government to work on fortifications, and
my wife and Gerty have to do most of the housework," replied Uncle Homer
very gloomily; and it was plain to Christy that the mansion at Glenfield
was not what it had been in former years.

"How is Corny? I have not heard from him lately."

"Corny is now a captain in the Army of Virginia, and is doing his duty
like a man," answered the colonel proudly; and this fact seemed to be
almost the only pleasant feature of his experience. "We have been called
upon to endure a great many hardships; but we still feel that the God of
justice will give us the victory in the end, and we try to bear our
burdens with resignation. The captain informs me that you are going
home, Christy."

"The surgeon has ordered me to the North on account of the heat in this
locality."

"I learned in Nassau as well as when I was at Bonnydale, that your
father holds a very prominent and influential position among your
people, and your advancement seems to be made sure," added the planter.

"He has never held any office under the United States government, and
I hope I do not owe my advancement to him; and he has often assured me
that he never asked for my promotion or appointment," said Christy.

"You have been of very great service to your government, as I know to my
sorrow, and I have no doubt you deserved whatever promotion you have
obtained," added the colonel, observing that he had touched his nephew
in a very tender spot. "But I suppose the boat is waiting for me, and I
must bid you good-by. Remember me in the kindliest manner to your father
and mother, and to Miss Florry. They were all as good to me when I was
on parole at Bonnydale as though no war had ever divided us."

The colonel took Christy by the hand, and betrayed no little emotion
as they parted. The lieutenant realized that his uncle was suffering
severely under the hardships and anxieties of the war, and he was
profoundly sorry for him, though he uttered no complaint. Both on his
own account and on that of the Confederacy, he had shipped several
cargoes of cotton to Nassau to be sent from there to England; but every
one of them had been captured, most of them by his nephew while in
command of the Bronx. But he was still confident that the Confederacy
would triumph.

Colonel Passford had been sent to the fort under a flag of truce, and
had been received by the commandant. In a couple of days the repairs of
both ships had been completed. Captain Rombold, though his wound was
quite severe, was getting along very well. Captain Breaker had completed
his arrangements for the disposal of the prizes and prisoners; and it
became necessary to remove the wounded commander to the cabin of the
Tallahatchie, to which he did not object, for the wounded in his cabin
had been placed in a temporary hospital between decks. He was permitted
to occupy the stateroom he had used while in command, while the other
was reserved for the prize-master.

Ensign Palmer Drake, the senior of the two officers waiting
appointments, was made prize-master of the Tallahatchie, for he had
proved to be an able and brave man in the recent action. Mr. Ballard
became executive officer of the Bellevite, and Mr. Walbrook the second
lieutenant, while the place of the third was filled by Mr. Bostwick, who
had been master. French was appointed prize-master of the West Wind,
with a crew of five men, as she was to be towed by the prize steamer.

It was found that the Tallahatchie had gone into the action with
ninety-five men, including the forward officers. More than one-third of
them had been killed or disabled, without counting those who were still
able to keep the deck and sleep in their hammocks. Fifty of them were
in condition to do duty; and Captain Breaker did not consider it prudent
to send so many prisoners to the North in the prize. He therefore sent
forty of them to Key West in the Holyoke, assured that the Bellevite was
abundantly able to maintain the blockade, even with her reduced ship's
company, during the absence of his consort.

The engineers of the prize were willing to continue their services at
the expense of their new employer, or even to accept permanent
appointments; for they did not belong to the upper classes in England
who favored the cause of the Confederacy, and were only looking for the
highest wages. Weeks, the oiler, and Bingham, a boatswain's mate, were
appointed first and second officers of the Tallahatchie, and twenty
seamen were detailed as a prize crew. To insure the fidelity of the four
foreign engineers Mr. Graines was sent as a sort of supervisor, with the
knowledge and assent of those in actual charge of the machinery.

When all was ready for her departure, Christy went on board of the
Tallahatchie in the same boat with the engineer, after a rather sad
parting with the captain and his fellow-officers, and amid the cheers of
the seamen, who had mounted the rail and the rigging to see him off. Mr.
Drake conducted him to the captain's cabin when he went on board of the
prize, where he met Captain Rombold, with whom he exchanged friendly
greetings.

"Fellow passengers again, Mr. Passford; but you are going to your
reward, and I to my punishment," said the late commander very
cheerfully.

"Hardly to my reward, for I neither desire nor expect any further
promotion," replied Christy. "I am not yet twenty years old."

"But God makes some fully-developed men before they are twenty-one, and
you are one of them."

"Thank you, Captain."

"I am willing to wager the salary I have lost that you will be promoted
whether you desire it or not."

"I hope not," replied the lieutenant, as he went to the temporary
stateroom which had been prepared for him.

The apartment was much larger than the permanent ones, and it was
provided with everything that could contribute to his comfort. While Mr.
Graines was assisting him to arrange his baggage, the steamer got under
way.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE WELCOME HOME AT BONNYDALE


Even with the West Wind in tow, the Tallahatchie could make fifteen
knots an hour; for the sea was smooth, with every prospect of continued
fine weather. Dr. Davidson was a prisoner of war, but he remained on
board in charge of the wounded of both sides. He was very devoted to
Christy, and dressed his wound every morning as tenderly as his mother
could have done it. He was a gentleman in the highest sense of the word,
and belonged to one of the best families in the South.

Captain Rombold was a very agreeable person; and most of the
conversation in the cabin was carried on in French, for the commander
was delighted when he could obtain an opportunity to practise the
language, and Dr. Davidson spoke it as fluently as a Frenchman, though
Captain Drake was unable to understand a word of it. If one had looked
in upon them he would have supposed they were enjoying a yachting
excursion, and could not have told who were prisoners and who were not.

The two wounded officers passed a portion of every day on deck, and the
time slipped away very pleasantly. Mr. Graines spent much of his days
and some of his nights in the engine-room, and was on the best of terms
with the English engineers; but he could discover no signs of treachery
on their part. The prisoners forward were well treated and well cared
for, and they made no trouble.

The ship made a quick passage to New York, and went into the harbor
with the American flag flying over the Confederate; but this was not an
uncommon sight, and it did not attract much attention. The pilot brought
a file of newspapers, and the lieutenant learned that Grant was still
"hammering away" at the Confederate forces in Virginia, though without
any decided success. The ship came to anchor at the navy yard, and
Captain Drake reported to the commandant.

Lieutenant Passford was well known there, though the intelligence of his
latest achievement had not yet reached there. Christy had written out
his report of the expedition to Mobile Point, and Captain Drake brought
that of Captain Breaker of the action with the Tallahatchie. The
lieutenant had no official duty to perform, and he was at liberty to go
where he pleased. He procured leave of absence for Mr. Graines; for he
was himself still on fever diet, and was rather weak so that he needed
his assistance.

"Home again, Charley!" exclaimed Christy, when they had landed at the
navy yard.

"That's so, and my folks at home will not expect to see me," replied the
engineer.

"Neither will any one at Bonnydale anticipate a visit from me," added
Christy. "We know all about the sharp action of the Bellevite with the
Tallahatchie; but no one in these parts can have heard a word about it.
Now, Charley, see if you can find a carriage for me;" and the wounded
officer went into an office to wait for it.

The uniform of the messenger carried him past all sentinels; and in half
an hour he returned in a carriage, which was permitted to enter the yard
on Mr. Graines's statement of its intended use. Christy was assisted
into it. "Wall Street Ferry," said the lieutenant to the driver.

"Why do you go there?" asked the engineer. "You wish to go to the
railroad station, do you not?"

"I want to find my father if I can, and I think he must be in the city,"
replied Christy, as he gave his companion the location of the office
where he did his business with the government, though he made frequent
visits to Washington for consultation with the officials of the Navy
Department.

The carriage was retained, and in another hour they reached the office.
Captain Passford was not there; he had gone to Washington three days
before, and no one knew when he would return. Christy was prepared for
this disappointment, and he had arranged in his mind the wording of
a telegraphic message to his father. While he was writing it out a
gentleman came out of the office whom the lieutenant had met before.

"I am delighted to see you, Mr. Passford!" exclaimed the gentleman, who
was in the uniform of a naval officer, as he extended his hand to the
visitor. "One of our people informed me that the son of Captain Passford
was at the door, and I hastened out to see you. Won't you come into the
office?"

"No, I thank you; I am not very well, for I was wounded in the left arm
in our last action, and I am sent home by the surgeon on a furlough,"
replied Christy. "Permit me, Captain Bentwick, to introduce my friend,
Mr. Graines, third assistant engineer of the Bellevite."

"I am very happy to know you, Mr. Graines," added Captain Bentwick,
taking his hand. "I am very sorry you are wounded, Mr. Passford. What
can I do for you?"

"Nothing, I thank you, at present. I am writing a message to send to my
father. I was just finishing it when you came," replied Christy, as he
added the finishing words, and passed it to the official.

"'Sent home on furlough, slightly wounded. Wish paroles for Captain
George Rombold and Dr. Pierre Davidson,'" Captain Bentwick read from the
paper. "I will have it sent at once from this office. But, Mr. Passford,
I can parole these officers, and it is not necessary for you to trouble
your father with such a matter. Who and what are the officers?"

"Captain Rombold was the commander of the Tallahatchie, prize to the
Bellevite," answered Christy. "When I was in danger of fainting after
the action on the deck of his ship, he sent for his surgeon, Dr.
Davidson, though his own wound had not been dressed. Both he and the
surgeon were extremely kind to me, and I desire to reciprocate their
good offices by inviting them to my father's house."

"Where are these gentlemen now, Mr. Passford?"

"I left them on board of the prize at the navy yard, sir. I am not sure
that they will accept parole, for I have not spoken to them about it;
but I am very anxious to serve them."

"I know what your father would say if he were here, and I will send an
officer authorized to take their parole to the navy yard at once. I will
instruct him to represent your desire to them in the strongest terms,
and if they accept, to conduct them to Bonnydale, for I know you must be
in a hurry to get there," continued Captain Bentwick, as he shook the
hands of both officers, and returned to the office.

"That shows what it is to have powerful friends," said Mr. Graines, when
his companion had directed the driver to the railroad station.

  [Illustration: "Mrs. Passford rushed down the steps." Page 264.]

"I have not asked anything unreasonable, Charley," replied Christy,
sensitive as usual in regard to influential assistance.

"Certainly not; but if I had asked to have your Confederate friends
paroled, a thousand yards of red tape would have to be expended before
it could be done," added the engineer with a laugh.

They reached the station, and discharged the carriage; but they found
they had to wait two hours for a train to Bonnydale. As it was after
noon, they went to a hotel for dinner, and passed the time very
impatiently in waiting for the train. Both of them were burning with the
desire to see their friends at home; but the train started in due time,
and they left it at the nearest station to Bonnydale, proceeding there
in a carriage.

Christy gave the bell a very vigorous pull, and the servant that came to
the door was a stranger to him. He wished to see Mrs. Passford; and the
man was about to conduct him to the reception room, when he bolted from
him.

"Mrs. Passford is engaged just now, sir; but she will be down in a few
minutes," said the servant, laying his hand on his arm for the purpose
of detaining him.

"But I cannot wait," returned the lieutenant very decidedly, and he
shook off the man, and began to ascend the stairs.

An instant later there was a double scream on the floor above, and Mrs.
Passford rushed down the steps, followed by Florry. Christy retreated to
the hall, and a moment later he was folded in the arms of his mother and
sister, both of whom were kissing him at the same time.

"But, my son, your arm is in a sling!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford, falling
back with an expression of consternation on her face.

"You are wounded, Christy!" cried Florry, as a flood of tears came into
her eyes.

"Only a scratch, mother; don't be alarmed," protested the lieutenant.
"It was all nonsense to send me home on a furlough; but it was the
commander's order, at the recommendation of Dr. Linscott."

"But you are wounded, my son," persisted his mother.

"You have been shot in the arm, Christy," added Florry.

"But I was not shot through the head or the heart; it is not a bit of
use to make a fuss about it; and Paul Vapoor was not wounded, for he had
to stay in the engine room during the action, and he is as hearty as a
buck," rattled the lieutenant, and making his pretty sister blush like a
fresh rose.

"I am really worried about it, my son. Where is the wound?" asked his
mother.

"Here, Charley, tell them all about it," called Christy to his
companion, who had been forgotten in the excitement of the moment.

"Why, Charley Graines!" exclaimed Florry, rushing to him with an
extended hand. "I did not know you were here."

"I am glad to see you, Charley, especially as you have been a friend and
associate of my son, as you were before the war," added Mrs. Passford.

"I am very glad to see you, Mrs. Passford and Miss Passford," said he,
bowing to both of them. "I have been on duty recently with Christy, and
I have been looking out for him on the voyage home."

"Charley has been a brother to me, and done everything under the canopy
for me. I am somewhat fatigued just now," added the lieutenant, as he
seated himself on a sofa in the hall. "He will answer your questions
now, and tell you that I am not killed."

"But come into the sitting-room, my son, for we can make you more
comfortable there," said his mother, taking him by the right arm, and
assisting him to rise.

"I don't need any help, mamma," added Christy playfully, as he rose from
the sofa. "I have not been butchered, and I haven't anything but a
little bullet-hole through the fleshy part of my left arm. Don't make a
baby of me; for a commander in the Confederate navy told me that God
made some fully-developed men before they were twenty-one, and that I
was one of them. Don't make me fall from my high estate to that of an
overgrown infant, mother."

"I will not do anything of the kind, my son," replied Mrs. Passford, as
she arranged the cushions on the sofa for him. "Now, Florry, get a wrap
for him."

Christy stretched himself out on the sofa, for he was really fatigued by
the movements of the forenoon and the excitement of his return to the
scenes of his childhood.

"Tell them what the doctors said about my wound, Charley," he continued,
as he arranged himself for the enjoyment of a period of silence.

"Mr. Passford has had two surgeons," Mr. Graines began.

"Then he must have been very badly wounded!" ejaculated Florry, leaping
to a very hasty conclusion.

"Not at all," protested the engineer. "Both of them said he was not
severely wounded."

"Why was he sent home on a furlough?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Because the weather was getting very hot in the Gulf of Mexico, and
it was believed that he would do better at home. He has been somewhat
feverish; but he is improving every day, and in a couple of weeks he
will be as well as ever."

"Thank God, it is no worse!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford.

Then she insisted that he should be quiet, and they all retired to the
library.




CHAPTER XXIV

LIEUTENANT-COMMANDER CHRISTOPHER PASSFORD


Christy Passford dropped asleep when left alone in the sitting-room, and
his slumber lasted a full hour. During this time Mr. Graines had related
the incidents of the action in which he had been wounded, and given a
full account of the expedition to Mobile Point. He was not sparing in
his praise; but he brought it out in what had been said by others,
especially by the commanders of both vessels and in the demonstrations
of the seamen of the Bellevite.

When the wounded officer awoke it was with a start, and he was surprised
to find he had been asleep in the midst of such happy surroundings. He
rose from his couch, and found that his mother and sister had left the
room. He passed out into the hall, and there heard the voice of the
engineer in the library which he entered at once.

"I hope you feel better, my son," said his mother, as she and Florry
rose from their chairs rejoicing anew at his return home after the
fearful peril through which he had passed, for the recital of his
brilliant exploits by his friend had been intensely thrilling to both
of them.

"I'm all right, mother dear; I was only tired a little, for I have
taken more exercise to-day than usual lately," replied Christy, as Mrs.
Passford kissed him again and again, and Florry followed her example.

"Charley Graines has told us all about it, Christy," said his sister.

"So you have been spinning a yarn, have you, Charley?" asked the hero.

"I have related only the simple truth, Christy, for I knew you would not
tell them the whole of it," replied the engineer.

"I am afraid you were reckless, my son," added Mrs. Passford.

"Reckless!" exclaimed Christy. "When I saw my duty there was no
alternative but to do it; and that was all I did. You have been
decorating your yarn, Charley."

"Not a particle; and Captain Breaker would confirm everything I have
said," protested Mr. Graines. "So would Captain Rombold, if he were
here, as I suppose he will be soon."

"That reminds me, mother, that you are to have some visitors; for I
expect Captain Rombold and Dr. Davidson will be here some time to-day,
for I have spoken to have them paroled," interposed Christy.

"Who is Dr. Davidson, my son?" asked his mother.

"He was the surgeon of the Tallahatchie. Both of your visitors are
rebels to the very core," added the lieutenant playfully. "I was hit in
the arm by a bullet when I was in the mizzen rigging; but I did not
report to the surgeon"--

"As you ought to have done," interrupted the engineer.

"Dr. Linscott had his hands full, and I did not want to bother him then.
I went on board of the prize to take a look at the disabled Armstrong
gun. Captain Rombold, who was wounded in the right thigh, was sitting on
the quarter-deck. He spoke to me, for I was well acquainted with him.
While we were talking, I began to feel faint, and slumped down on the
deck like a woman. The captain sent for his surgeon, though his own
wound had not been dressed; and Dr. Davidson was the gentleman who came,
and very soon I felt better. They treated me like a brother; and that is
the reason I have asked to have them both sent here."

"I am very glad you did, Christy; and we will do everything we can for
them," added Mrs. Passford.

The father and mother of Mr. Graines lived in Montgomery, two miles
distant, and he was anxious to see them. Leaving Christie in the hands
of his mother and sister, he took his leave early in the afternoon.
Later in the day a carriage stopped at the mansion, and the expected
visitors, attended by the naval officer who had paroled them, were
admitted by the servant. As soon as they were announced, Christy
hastened to the hall, followed by his mother and sister. The captain
carried a crutch, and was also supported by the doctor and the naval
lieutenant.

"I am very glad to see you, Captain Rombold," said Christy, as he gave
his hand to the commander. "And you, Dr. Davidson;" and he proceeded to
present them to his mother and sister.

"This is Lieutenant Alburgh of your navy, Mr. Passford; and he has been
very attentive to us," interposed the surgeon, introducing the paroling
officer.

"I am very happy to know you, Mr. Alburgh;" and he presented him to Mrs.
Passford and Florry.

The lieutenant declined an invitation to dinner; for he was in haste to
return to New York, going back to the station in the carriage that had
brought him. Mrs. Passford invited the party to the sitting-room, and
Christy and the doctor assisted the wounded commander. He was placed
upon the sofa, where he reclined, supported by the cushions arranged by
the lady of the house.

"I am extremely grateful to you both, gentlemen, for your kindness to my
son when he was beyond my reach, and it affords me very great pleasure
to obtain the opportunity to reciprocate it in some slight degree," said
Mrs. Passford, when the captain declared that he was very comfortable in
his position on the sofa.

"And I thank you with all my heart for what you did for my brother,"
added Florry.

"You more than repay me; and, madam, permit me to congratulate you on
being the mother of such a son as Lieutenant Passford," replied Captain
Rombold warmly. "I am still a rebel to the very centre of my being; but
that does not prevent me from giving the tribute of my admiration to
an enemy who has been as brave, noble, and generous as your son. The
brilliant exploit of Mr. Passford, I sincerely believe, cost me my ship,
and at least the lives or limbs of a quarter of my ship's company. It
was one of the most daring and well-executed movements I ever witnessed
in my life, madam."

"Please to let up, Captain," interposed Christy, blushing as Florry
would have done if Paul Vapoor had entered the room at that moment.

"He is as modest as he is brave, Mrs. Passford. It was sheer admiration
for the young officer which compelled me to send for my own surgeon when
he sank fainting upon the deck, with the blood streaming from the ends
of his fingers," added the commander.

"If you are going to talk about this matter the rest of the day, Captain
Rombold, I must beg you to excuse me if I retire," interposed Christy,
rising from his chair.

"I won't say another word about it, Mr. Passford!" protested the
captain. "But I hope your mother will have a chance to read Captain
Breaker's report of the action, for he and I are of the same opinion in
regard to the conduct of your son."

"My husband will doubtless bring me a copy of it," added the lady.

In deference to the wishes of Christy, nothing more was said about
the action, at least so far as it related to him. After some general
conversation, the surgeon suggested that he had not dressed the wounds
of his patients that day, and the commander was assisted to the
principal guest chamber, while the lieutenant went to his own apartment.

Captain Passford was detained three days in Washington by important
business at the Navy Department. Captain Breaker's report of the
action resulting in the capture of the Tallahatchie had reached its
destination, and the proud father was in possession of all the details
of the battle. He telegraphed and wrote to his son; and it was another
joyful occasion at Bonnydale when he arrived there.

Dr. Davidson remained at the mansion for three weeks, until his patients
were convalescent, though he went every day to the hospital of the
prisoners of war to see the wounded of his ship. Captain Passford had
given the visitors a very cordial and hearty welcome on his return, and
expressed his gratitude to them for their kindness to his son in the
strongest terms. He did every possible thing to promote their comfort
and happiness, and the reign of Christianity continued at Bonnydale as
it had been begun on board of the Bellevite and the Tallahatchie.

In two weeks Christy's wound had practically healed, though his arm was
not yet the equal of the other. His father spent all the time he could
spare at home, and long talks between father and son were the order of
the day. The lieutenant had been informed on his arrival of the death of
Mr. Pembroke, Bertha's father, two months before; but she had gone to
visit an uncle in Ohio, and Christy had not yet seen her.

"I expect Miss Pembroke will be here to-morrow, Christy," said Captain
Passford one day, about three weeks after his return. "I suppose you are
of the same mind in regard to her."

"I am, father," replied Christy, for he was about the same as a younger
brother in his relations with him. "But I have not heard a word from
her, any more than from you, since I left home."

"There has been no occasion to send a store-ship or other vessel to
the Eastern Gulf squadron, though one sailed about a week before your
arrival, and letters were forwarded to you," replied the captain.
"Doubtless one or more went from her to you. She cannot have heard of
your arrival; for I lost the address of her uncle in Ohio, and we could
not write to her. Her father had a little property; and at her request I
have been appointed her guardian, and she will reside at Bonnydale in
the future."

Bertha Pembroke arrived the next day, and what Christy needed to
complete his happiness was supplied, and now his cup was overflowing.
But he did not forget that he still owed a duty to his suffering
country. Even the fascinations of the beautiful girl could not entice
him to remain in his beloved home while his arm was needed to help on
the nation's cause to a victorious Union.

At the end of four weeks, he felt as well as ever before in his life,
and he was impatient to return to the Bellevite. For a week before he
had been talking to his father about the matter; and Bertha knew her
betrothed, as he was by this time, too well to make any objection to his
intended departure.

The Tallahatchie had been promptly condemned, and the fact that she was
a superior vessel for war purposes, and her great speed compared with
most vessels in the navy, had caused her to be appropriated to the use
of the government. Orders had been given weeks before for her thorough
repair and better armament, all of which had been hastily accomplished.
Christy had not been to New York since his return; and for some reason
of his own, his father had said very little to him about the service,
perhaps believing that his son had better give his whole mind to the
improvement of his health and strength.

"I hope you have found a vessel by which I can return to the Eastern
Gulf squadron, father," said Christy one morning, with more earnestness
than usual. "I begin to feel guilty of neglect of duty while I am
loafing about home."

"Don't trouble yourself, my son," replied Captain Passford, who seemed
to be rather exhilarated about something. "You shall return to your duty
in due time, though not in exactly the same position as before."

"Am I to be appointed to some other ship, father?" asked Christy, gazing
earnestly into the captain's face to read what was evidently passing in
his mind, for it made him very cheerful.

"You are to sail in another ship, Christy; but wait a minute and I will
return," said Captain Passford, as he left the sitting-room and went to
his library.

Opening his safe he took from it a ponderous envelope bearing official
imprints, and returned to the sitting-room. Handing it to his son, he
dropped into an arm-chair and observed him with close attention.

"What's this, father?" asked the young officer.

"I have had it about three weeks, but waited for your entire recovery
before I gave it to you," replied the captain. "Open it."

Christy did so, read it, and then in his excitement, dropped it on the
floor. It was his commission as a lieutenant-commander.




CHAPTER XXV

THE PRINCIPAL OFFICERS OF THE ST. REGIS


Christy Passford was astounded and confounded when he read the
commission. He modestly believed that he had already been promoted
beyond his deserving, though no one else, not even his father, thought
so. He had not sought promotion at any time, and he had been hurried
through four grades in something over three years. He was the heir of
millions, and he had given all his pay to wounded sailors and the
families of those who had fallen in naval actions.

His share of the prize money resulting from the captures in which he had
taken part as commander or in some subordinate position had made him a
rich man; and with his mother's assistance, he was disbursing no small
portion of his wealth among those who had been deprived of their support
by the casualties of the war. He had not expected or even hoped for any
further promotion, though the newspaper had extolled to the skies his
brilliant exploit in the Gulf.

"What does this mean, father?" asked Christy, dropping into a chair as
if overwhelmed by the contents of the envelope.

"It means just what it says, my son," replied Captain Passford. "But
I know that it is necessary now for me to explain that this promotion
is none of my doing; for I have not asked it, I have not urged it,
I have not made the remotest suggestion that you should be made a
lieutenant-commander, as I have not done on any former occasion."

"That is enough, father; your plea of not guilty would have been enough
to satisfy me," added Christy.

"I prevented your appointment to the command of the Chateaugay, and
procured your position as second lieutenant of the Bellevite; and these
two instances are absolutely all the requests I have ever made to the
department in relation to you," protested the captain.

"That helps the matter very much," answered Christy. "I have been the
victim of supposed partiality, 'a friend at court' and all that sort of
thing, till I am disgusted with it."

"And all that has been in consequence of your over-sensitiveness rather
than anything that ever was said about you."

"Perhaps it was. But as a lieutenant-commander I might still remain as
executive officer of the Bellevite, for Captain Breaker has been a
commander for over two years," suggested Christy.

"The department has made another disposition of you, and without any
hint or suggestion from me, my son," said Captain Passford, as he took
another envelope from his pocket, and presented it to his son. "This
came to me by this morning's mail; and I have withheld the commission
till I received it."

"And what may this be, father?" asked Christy, looking from the missive
to the captain's face, which was glowing with smiles, for he was as
proud of his only son as he ought to have been.

"Christy, you remind me of some old ladies I have met, who, when they
receive a letter, wonder for five or ten minutes whom it is from before
they break the envelope, when a sight of the contents would inform them
instantly," added the captain, laughing.

"But I am afraid the contents of this envelope will be like the
explosion of a mine to me, and therefore I am not just like the old
ladies you have met," returned the lieutenant-commander. "One mine a day
let off in my face is about all I can stand."

"Open the envelope!" urged his father rather impatiently.

"It never rains but it pours!" exclaimed Christy, when he had looked
over the paper it enclosed. "I am appointed to the command of the St.
Regis! I think some one who gives names to our new vessels must have
spent a summer with Paul Smith at his hotel by the river and lake of
that name; and the same man probably selected the name of Chateaugay.
I suppose it is some little snapping gunboat like the Bronx; but I don't
object to her on that account."

"She is nothing like the Bronx, for she is more than twice as large; and
you have already seen some service on her deck."

"Some steamer that has had her name changed. But I have served regularly
only on board of the Bellevite and the Bronx, and it cannot be either of
them," said Christy, with a puzzled expression.

"She is neither the one nor the other. She has had three names: the
first was the Trafalgar, the second the Tallahatchie, and the third the
St. Regis," continued the captain.

"Is it possible!" exclaimed Christy, relapsing into silent
thoughtfulness, for he could hardly believe the paper from which he had
read his appointment; and officers far his senior in years would have
rejoiced to receive the command of such a ship.

"Not only possible, but an accomplished fact; and the only sad thing
about it is that you must sail in the St. Regis day after to-morrow."

"I am informed that my orders will come by to-morrow," added the
lieutenant-commander.

"The ship is all ready for sea. An eight-inch Parrot has been
substituted for the Armstrong gun, the same as the midship gun of the
Bellevite," the captain explained. "Perhaps you would like to know
something about your fellow-officers, Christy."

"I certainly should, father, for whatever success I may have will depend
largely upon them," replied the embryo commander of the St. Regis.

"Your executive officer will be Lieutenant George Baskirk," continued
Captain Passford, reading from a paper he took from his pocket.

"Good! He was the second lieutenant of the Bronx when I was in command
of her; and a better or braver officer never planked a deck."

"He was available, and I suggested him. Your second lieutenant is Joel
Makepeace, just promoted from the rank of master. He is fifty-two years
old, but as active as ever he was. He is a regular old sea dog, and
commanded an Indiaman for me fifteen years ago; but you never met him.
He has made a good record in the war, and I feel sure that you will like
him."

"I have no doubt I shall, father; and I like the idea of having an
officer who is old enough to be my father, and who has had a great deal
of experience at sea," replied Christy.

"He was an able seaman and petty officer in the navy for three years
when he was a young man, and has served as a master from the beginning
of the war," continued Captain Passford.

"Probably he does not like the idea of being under the command of one
who has not yet reached his majority in years," suggested the commander
of the St. Regis.

"On the contrary, he seemed to be delighted with his appointment. Your
third lieutenant is Ensign Palmer Drake who brought home your prize."

"He is a good man and a good officer, and I am entirely satisfied with
him."

"Ensign Barton French is to serve as master on board of your ship. Some
doubts were expressed in regard to his knowledge of navigation, and he
passed a very creditable examination."

"I am very glad indeed that he has obtained his promotion, and that he
is to sail with me," added Christy, who had taken quite an interest in
him as an able seaman, and had procured his appointment as prize-master
