" I never have heard any one use more 
words. " 
''Ay! they roll from my tongue — and from 
Reinaldo's — like wheels downhill " 
She turned to Adan : '*They will be nappy, 
you think, — Reinaldo and Prudencia?" 
"Ay!" 
"What a beautiful wedding, no ? ' 
"Ay!'' 
"Life is always the same with thee, I 
suppose, — smoking, riding, swinging in the 
hamnock?" 
'*Ay !" 
''Thou wouldst not exchange thy life for 
another ? Thou dost not wish to travel ? " 
"No, — sure." 
She wheeled suddenly and galloped over to 
her father and Alvarado, her caballeros staring 
helplessly after her. 
When we arrived at the rancho the bullocks 
were already swinging in the pits, the smell of 
roast meat was in the air. We dismounted, 
throwing our bridles to the vaqueros in waiting ; 
and while Indian servants spread the table, the 
girls joined hands and danced about the pit, 
throwing flowers upon the bullocks, singing and 
laughing. The men watched them, or amused 
themselves in various ways, — some with cock- 
fights and impromptu races ; others began at 
once to gamble on a large flat stone ; a group 
stood about a greased pole and jeered at two 
rival vaqueros endeavoring to mount it for the 
 
 
sake of the gold piece on the top. One buried 
a rooster in the ground, leaving its head alone 
exposed ; others, mounting their horses, dashed 
by at full speed, snatching at the head as they 
passed. Reinaldo distinguished himself by 
twisting it off with facile wrist while urging his 
horse to the swiftness of the east wind. 
" I am going to dare more than Californian 
has ever dared before, " said Estenega to me, 
as we gathered at length about the table-cloth. 
" I am going to get Dona Chonita off by her- 
self in that little cafton and have a talk with 
her. Now, do you stand guard. " 
" I shall not ! " I exclaimed. '* It is 
understood that when DonaTrinidad stays at home 
Chonita is in my charge. I will not permit 
such a thing." 
"Thou wilt, my Eustaquia. Dona Chonita 
is no pudding-brained girl. She needs no 
duena. " 
" I know that ; but it is not that I am 
thinking of. Suppose some one sees you ; thou 
knowest the inflexibility of our conventions." 
" You forget that we are comadre and 
compadre. Our privileges are many. " He abruptly 
dismissed the intimate "thou," with his usual 
American perversity. 
^' True ; I had forgotten. But whither is all 
this tending", Diego ? She neither will nor can 
marry you. " 
" She both can and will. Will you help me, 
or not ? Because if not I shall proceed without 
you. Only you can make it easier." 
I always gave way to him ; everybody did. 
He was as good as his word. How he man- 
aged, Chonita never knew, but not a half-hour 
after dinner she found herself alone in the canon 
with him, seated among the huge stones cata- 
clysms had hurled there. 
''Why have you brought me here?" she 
asked. 
"To talk with you." 
"But this would be severely censured. 
"Do you care? " 
"'No." 
She looked at him with a curious feeling she 
had had before ; there was something inside of 
his head that she wanted to get at, — something 
that baffled and teased and allured her. She 
wanted to understand him, and she was op- 
pressed by the weight of her ignorance ; she 
had no key to unlock a man like that. With 
one of her swift impulses she told him of what 
she was thinking. 
He smiled, his eyes lighting. " I am more 
than willing you should know all that you 
would be curious about," he said. ''Ask me 
a hundred questions ; I will answer them. " 
She meditated a moment. She never had 
taken sufficient interest in a man before to 
desire to fathom him, and the arts of the Califor- 
nian belle were not those of the tactfully and 
impartially interested woman of to-day. She 
did not know how to begin. 
'*What have you read ?" she asked, at 
length. 
He gave her some account of his library, — a 
large one, — and mentioned many books of 
many nations, of which she had never heard. 
''You have read all those books ? '* 
''There are many long winter nights and 
days in the redwood forests of the northern 
coast." 
"That does not tell me much, — what you 
have read. I feel that it is but one of the many 
items which went to the making up of you. 
You have traveled everywhere, no ? Was it 
like living over again the books of travel ? " 
"Not in the least. Each man travels for 
himself " 
' ' Madame de Sta^l said that traveling was 
sad. Is it so ? " 
' ' To the lover of history it is like food with- 
out salt : imagination has painted an historical 
City with the panorama of a great time ; it 
has been to us a stage for great events. We 
find it a stage with familiar paraphernalia, and 
actors as commonplace as ourselves." 
" It is more satisfactory to stay at home and 
read about it ? " 
''Infinitely, though less expanding.' 
"Then is anything worth while except read- 
ing?" 
' ' Several things ; the pursuit of glory, for one 
thing, and the active occupied life necessary 
for its achievement." 
She leaned forward a little ; she felt that she 
had stumbled nearer to him. "Are you am- 
bitious ? '' she asked. 
' ' For what it compels life to yield ; abstractly, 
not. Ambition is the looting of hell in chase 
of biting flames swirling above a desert of ashes. 
As for posthumous fame, it must be about as 
satisfactory as a draught of ice-water poured 
down the throat of a man who has died on Sa- 
hara. And yet, even if in the end it all means 
nothing, if  from hour to hour we ripe and ripe 
and then from hour to hour we rot and rot
still for a quarter-century or so the nettle of 
ambition flagellating our brain may serve to 
make life less uninteresting and more 
satisfactory. The abstraction and absorption of the 
fight, the stinging fear of rivals, the murmur 
of acknowledgment, the shout of compelled 
applause, — they fill the blanks.' 
'' Tell me," she said, imperiously, " what do 
you want ? " 
" Shall I tell you? I never have spoken of 
it to a living soul but Alvarado. Shall I tell it 
to a woman, — and an Iturbi y Moncada? 
Could the folly of man further go ? " 
"If I am a woman I am an Iturbi y Mon- 
cada, and if I am an Iturbi y Moncada I have 
the honor of its generations in my veins." 
''Very good. I believe you would not be- 
tray me, even in the interest of your house. 
Would you ? " 
-No." 
''And I love to talk to you, to tell you what 
I would tell no other. Listen, then. An 
envoy goes to Mexico next week with letters from 
Alvarado, desiring that I be the next governor 
of the Californias, and containing the assurance 
that the Departmental Junta will endorse me. 
I shall follow next month to see Santa Ana 
personally ; I know him well, and he was a friend 
of my father's. I wish to be invested with pe- 
culiar powers ; that is to say, I wish California 
to be practically overlooked while I am governor
and I wish it understood that I shall be 
governor as long as I please. Alvarado will 
hold no office under the Americans, and is as 
ready to retire now as a few years later. Of 
course my predilection for the Americans must 
be carefully concealed both from the Mexican 
government and the mass of the people here : 
Santa Ana and Alvarado know what is bound 
to come ; the Mexicans, generally, retain 
enough interest in the Californias to wish to 
keep them. I shall be the last governor of the 
Department, and I shall employ that period to 
amalgamate the native population so closely 
that they will make a strong contingent in the 
new order of things and be completely under 
my domination. I shall establish a college 
with American professors, so that our youth 
will be taught to think, and to think in English. 
Alvarado has done something for education, 
but not enough ; he has not enforced it, and 
the methods are very primitive. I intend to 
be virtually dictator. With as little delay as 
possible I shall establish a newspaper, — a 
powerful weapon in the hands of a ruler, as 
well as a factor of development. Then I shall 
organize a superior court for the punishment of 
capital crimes. Not that I do not recognize 
the right of a man to kill if his reasons satisfy 
himself, but there can be no subservience to 
authority in a country where murder is 
practically licensed. American immigration will be 
more than encouraged, and it shall be distinctly 
understood by the Americans that I encourage 
it. Everything, of course, will be done to 
promote good-will between the Califomians and 
the new-comers. Then, when the United States 
make up their mind to take possession of us, I 
shall waste no blood, but hand over a country 
worthy of capture. In the meantime it will 
have been carefully drilled into the Califomian 
mind that American occupation will be for their 
ultimate good, and that I shall go to Wash- 
ington to protect their interests. There will 
then be no foolish insurrections. Do you care 
to hear more ? " 
Her face was flushed, her chest was rising 
rapidly. 
" I hardly know what to think, — how I feel. 
You interest me so much as you .talk that I 
wish you to succeed : I picture your success. 
And yet it maddens me to hear you talk of the 
Americans in that way, — also to know that 
your house will be greater than ours, — that 
we will be forgotten. But — yes, tell me all. 
What will you do then ? " 
"I shall have California, in the first place, 
scratched for the gold that I believe lies 
somewhere within her. When that great resource 
is located and developed I shall publish in every 
American newspaper the extraordinary agri- 
cultural advantages of the country. In a word, 
my object is to make California a great State 
and its name synonymous with my own. As 
I told you before, for fame as fame I care noth- 
ing ; I do not care if I am forgotten on my 
death-bed ; but with my blood biting my veins 
I must have action while living. Shall I say 
that I have a worthier motive in wishing to 
aid in the development of civilization ? But 
why worthier? Merely a higher form of 
selfishness. The best and the worst of motives are 
prompted by the same instinct. " 
" I would advise you," she said, slowly, 
'* never to marry. Your wife would be very 
unhappy. " 
"But no one has greater scorn than you for 
the man who spends his life with his lips at 
the chalice of the poppy. " 
"True, I had forgotten them." She rose 
abruptly. ''Let us go back," she said. " It 
is better not to stay too long." 
As they walked down the cailon she looked 
at him furtively. The men of her race were 
almost all tall and finely-proportioned, but they 
did not suggest strength as this man did. And 
his face, — it was so grimly determined at times 
that she shrank from it, then drew near, 
fascinated. It had no beauty at all — according 
to Californian standards ; she could not know 
that it represented all that intellect, refinement 
and civilization, generally, would do for 
the human race for a century to come, — but 
it had a subtle power, an absolute audacity, 
an almost contemptuous fearlessness in its bold, 
fine outline, a dominating intelligence in the 
keen deeply-set eyes, and a hint of weakness, 
where and what she could not determine, that 
mystified and magnetized her. 
" I know you a little better," she said, " just 
a little, — enough to make my curiosity ache 
and jump. At the same time, I know now 
what I did not before, — that I might climb and 
mine and study and watch, and you would 
always be beyond me. There is something 
subtle and evasive about you — something I 
seem to be close to always, yet never can see 
or grasp. " 
'* It is merely the barrier of sex. A man can 
know a woman fairly well, because her life, 
consequently the interests which mould her 
mind and conceive her thoughts, are more or 
less simple. A man's life is so complex, his 
nature so inevitably the sum and work of it 
— much of it lies so far outside of woman's 
sphere, his mind spiked with a thousand mag- 
nets, each pointing to a different possibility, — 
that she would need divine wisdom to comprehend
him in his entirety, even if he made her 
a diagram of every cell in his brain, — which he 
never would, out of consideration for both 
her and his own vanity. But within certain 
restrictions there can be a magnificent sense of 
comradeship." 
. "But a woman, I think, would never be 
happy with that something in the man always 
beyond her grasp, — that something which she 
could be nothing to. She would be more jeal- 
ous of that independence of her in man than 
of another woman. " 
"That was pure insight," he said. "You 
could not know that." 
" No, " she said, ' ' I had not thought of it 
before." 
I had made a martyr of myself on a three- 
cornered stone at the entrance of the cafton, 
waiting to dueiia them out. " Never will I 
do this again ! " I exclaimed, with that virtue 
born of discomfort, as they came in sight. 
"My dearest Eustaquia," said Diego, kiss- 
ing my hand gallantly, "thou hast given me 
pleasure so often, most charming and clever of 
women, thou hast but added one new art to 
thy overflowing store. '' 
We mounted almost immediately upon 
returning, and I was alone with Chonita for a 
moment. ' ' Do you realize that you are 
playing with fire ? " I said, warningly. " Estenega 
is a dangerous man ; the most successful man 
with women I have ever known." 
'* I do not deny his power," she said. " But 
I am safe, for the many reasons thou knowest 
of. And, being safe, why should I deny my- 
self the pleasure of talking to him ? I shall 
never meet his like again. Let me live for a 
little while." 
"Ay, but do not live too hard! It hurts 
down into the core and marrow."
XX. 
While we were eating supper, a dozen Indian 
girls were gathered about a table in one of the 
large rooms behind the house, busily engaged 
in blowing out the contents of several hundred 
eggs and filling the hollowed shells with 
cologne, flour, tinsel, bright scraps of paper. Each 
cggr was then sealed with white wax, and ready 
for the cascaron frolic of the evening. 
We had been dancing, singing, and talking 
for an hour after rosario, when the eggs were 
brought in. In an instant every girl's hair was 
unbound, a wild dive was made for the great 
trays, and eggs flew in every direction. 
Dancing was forgotten. The girls and men chased 
each other about the room, the air was filled 
with perfume and glittering particles, the latter 
looking very pretty on black floating hair. 
Etiquette demanded that only one I should 
be thrown by the same hand at a time, but 
quick turns of supple wrists followed each other 
very rapidly. To really accomplish a feat the 
eg'g must crash on the back of the head, and 
each occupied in attack was easy prey. 
Chonita was like a child. Two priests were 
of our party, and she made a target of their 
shaven crowns, shrieking with delight. They 
vowed revenge, and chased her all over the 
house ; but not an ^^'g had broken on that 
golden mane. She was surrounded at one 
time by caballeros, but she whirled and 
doubled so swiftly that every cascaron flew 
afield. 
The pelting grew faster and more furious ; 
every room was invaded ; we chased each 
other up and down the corridors. The people 
in the court had their cascarones also, and the 
noise must have been heard at the Mission. 
Don Guillermo hobbled about delightedly, 
covered with tinsel and flour. Estenega had tried 
a dozen times to hit Chonita, but as if by in- 
stinct she faced him each time before the ^g% 
could leave his hand. Finally he pursued her 
down the corridor to her library, where I, for- 
tunately, happened to be resting, and both threw 
themselves into chairs, breathless. 
" Let us stay here, " he said. " We have 
had enough of this. " 
" Very well, " she said. She bent her head to 
lift a book which had fallen from a shelf, and 
felt the soft blow of the cascaron. 
" At last ! '' said Estenega, contentedly, " I 
was determined to conquer, if I waited until 
morning. " 
Chonita looked vexed for a moment, — she 
did not like to be vanquished, — then shrugged 
her shoulders and leaned back in her chair. 
The little room was plainly furnished. Shelves 
covered three sides, and the window-seat and 
the table were littered with books. There 
were no curtains, no ornaments ; but Chonita's 
hair, billowing to the floor, her slender 
voluptuous form, her white skin and green 
irradiating eyes, the candlelight half revealing, half 
concealing, made a picture requiring no back- 
ground. I caught the expression of Estenega's 
face, and determined to remain if he murdered 
me. 
Peals of laughter, joyous shrieks, screams of 
mock terror, floated in to us. I broke a silence 
which was growing awkward : 
"How happy they are! Creatures of air 
and sunshine ! Life in this Arcadia is an idyl." 
"They are not happy," said Estenega, con- 
temptuously : " they are gay. They are light 
of heart through absence of material cares 
and endless sources of enjoyment, which in 
turn have bred a careless order of mind. But 
did each pause long enough to look into his 
own heart, would he not find a stone somewhere 
in its. depths? — perhaps a skull graven 
on the stone, — who knows ?" 
"0h, Diego!" I exclaimed, impatiently, 
"this is a party, not a funeral." 
"Then is no one happy?" asked Chonita, 
wistfully. 
" How can he be, when in each moment of 
attainment he is pricked by the knowledge that 
it must soon be over ? The youth is not happy, 
because the shadow of the future is on him. 
The man is not happy, because the knowledge 
of life's incompleteness is with him:" 
"Then of what use to live at all? " 
" No use. It is no use to die, neither, so we 
live. I will grant that there may be ten com- 
pletely happy moments in life, — the ten con- 
scious moments preceding certain death — and 
oblivion." 
" I will not discuss the beautiful hope of our 
religion with you, because you do not believe, 
and I should only get angry. But what are 
we to do with this life ? You say nothing is 
wrong nor right. What would you have the 
stumbling and unanchored do w^ith what has 
been thrust upon him ? " 
"Man, in his gropings down through the 
centuries, has concocted, shivered, and patched 
pertain social conditions well enough calgulated
to develop the best and the worst that is 
in us, making it easier for us to be bad than 
gfood, that good might be the standard. We 
feel a deeper satisfaction if we have conquered 
an evil impulse and done what is accepted as 
right, because we have groaned and stumbled 
in the doing, — that is all. Temptation is sweet 
only because the impulse comes from the 
depths of our being, not because it is difficult to 
be tempted. If we overcome, the satisfaction is 
deep and enduring, — which only goes to show 
that man is but a petty egotist, always drawing 
pictures of himself on a pedestal. The man 
who emancipates himself from traditions and 
yields to his impulses is debarred from happi- 
ness by the blunders of the blindfolded genera- 
tions preceding him, which arranged that to 
yield was easy and to resist difficult. Had they 
reversed the conditions and conclusions, the 
majority of the human race would have fought 
each other to death, but the selected remnant 
would have had a better time of it. 
' ' Let us suppose a case as conditions now 
exist. Assume, for the sake of argument, 
that you loved me and that you plucked from 
your nature your religion, your fidelity to your 
house, your love for your brother, and gave 
yourself to me. You would stand appalled at 
the sacrifice until you realized that you had 
come to me only because it would have been 
more difficult to stay away. You conquer the 
passionate cry of love, — the strongest the 
human compound has ever voiced, — and you 
are miserably happy for the rest of your life, 
no attitude being so pleasing to the soul as the 
attitude of martyrdom. Many a man and 
woman looks with some impatience for the 
last go6d-bye to be said, so sweet is the pros- 
pect of sadness, of suffering, of resignation. " 
I was aghast at his audacity, but I saw that 
Chonita was fascinated. Her egotism was 
caressed, and her womanhood thrilled. '* Are 
we all such shams as that ? " was what she 
said. '*You make me despise myself." 
" Not yourself, but a great structure — of 
which you are but a grain — with a faulty 
foundation. Don't despise yourself. Curse 
the builders who shoveled those stones to- 
gether." 
He left her then, and she told me to go to 
bed ; she wanted to sit a while and think. 
"He makes you think too much," I said. 
'' Better forget what he says as soon as you < 
can. He is a very disturbing influence." 
But she made me no reply, and sat there 
staring at the floor. She began to feel a sense 
of helplessness, like a creature caught in a net. 
It was more the man's personality than his 
words which made her feel as if he were pour- 
ing himself throughout her, taking possession 
of brain and every sense, as though he were a 
sort of intellectual drug. 
"I believe I was made from his rib," she 
thought, angrily, " else why can he have this 
extraordinary power over me ? I do not love 
him. I have read somewhat of love, and seen 
more. This is different, quite. I only feel 
that there is something in him that I want. 
Sometimes I feel that I must dig my nail$ into 
him and tear him apart until I find what I 
want, — something that belongs to me. Some- 
times it is as if he promised it, at others as if 
if he were unconscious of its existence; 
always it is evanescent. Is he going to make 
my mind his own ? — and yet he always seems 
to leave mine free. He has never snubbed me. 
He makes me think : there is the danger." 
An hour later there was a tap on her door. 
Casa Grande was asleep. She sat upright, her 
heart beating rapidly. Estenega was audacious 
enough for anything. But it was her brother 
who entered. 
"Reinaldo ! " she exclaimed, horrified to feel 
an unmistakable stab of disappointment 
"Yes, it is I. Art thou alone ? " 
"Sure." 
' ' I have something to say to thee. " 
He drew a chair close to her and sat down. 
'* Thou kno west, my sister," he began, 
haltingly, "how I hate the house of Estenega. 
My hatred is as loyal as thine : every drop of 
blood in my veins is true to the honor of the 
house of Iturbi y Moncada. But, my sister, 
is it not so that one can sacrifice himself, his 
mere personal feelings, upon the altar of his 
country ? Is it not so, my sister ? " 
'* What is it thou wishest me to understand, 
Reinaldo?" 
" Do not look so stem, my Chonita. Thou 
hast not yet heard me ; and, although thou 
mayest be angry then, thou wilt reason later. 
Thou art devoted to thy house, no ? " 
" Thou hast come here in the night to ask 
me such a question as that ? " 
" And thou lovest thy brother ? " 
" Reinaldo, thou hast drunken more mescal 
than Angelica. Go back to thy bride." But, 
although she spoke lightly, she was uneasy. 
"My sister, I never drank a drop of mescal 
in my life ! Listen. It is our father's wish, 
thy wish, my wish, that I become a great and 
distinguished man, an ornament to the house 
of Iturbi y Moncada, a star on the brow of Cal- 
ifornia. How can I accomplish this great and 
desirable end ? By the medium of politics 
only ; our wars are so insignificant. I have 
been debarred from the Departmental Junta by 
the enemy of our house, else would it have 
rung with my eloquence, and Mexico have 
known me to-day. Yet I care little for the 
Junta. I wish to go as diputado to Mexico; it 
is a grander arena. Moreover, in that great 
capital I shall become a man of the world, — 
which is necessary to control men. That is his 
power, — curse him ! And he — he will not let 
me go there. Even Alvarado listens to him. 
The Departmental Junta is under his thumb. I 
will never be anything but a caballero of Santa 
Barbara — I, an Iturbi y Moncada, the last scion 
of a line illustrious in war, in diplomacy, in 
politics — until he is either dead — do not jump, 
my sister ; it is not my intention to murder him 
and ruin my career — or becomes my friend." 
" Canst thou not put thy meaning in fewer 
words ? " 
'* My sister, he loves thee, and thou lovest 
thy brother and thy house." 
Chonita rose to her full height, and although 
he rose too, and was taller, she seemed to look 
down upon him. 
"Thou wouldst have me many him? Is 
that thy meaning ? " 
"Ay." His voice trembled. Under his 
swagger he was always a little afraid of the 
Doomswoman. 
''Thou askest perjury and disloyalty and 
dishonor of an Iturbi y Moncada? " 
" An Iturbi y Moncada asks it of an Iturbi y 
Moncada. If the man is ready to bend his 
neck in sacrifice to the glory of his house, is it 
for the woman to think ? " 
Chonita stood grasping the back of her chair 
convulsively ; it was the only sign of emotion 
she betrayed. She knew that what he said 
was true : that Estenega, for public and per- 
sonal reasons, never would let him go to 
Mexico ; he would permit no enemy at court. 
But this knowledge drifted through her mind 
and out of it at the moment ; she was strug- 
gling to hold down a hot wave of contempt rush- 
ing upward within her. She clung to her tradi- 
I tions as frantically as she clung to her religion. 
"Go," she said, after a moment. 
" Thou wilt think of what I have said ? " 
" I shall pray to forget it." 
"Chonita ! " his voice rang out so loud that 
she placed her hand on his mouth. He dashed 
it away. " Thou wilt ! " he cried, like a spoilt 
child " Thou wilt I I shall go to the city of 
Mexico, and only thou canst send me there. 
All my father's gold and leagues will not buy 
me a seat in the Mexican Congress, unless this 
accursed Estenega lifts his hand and says, 
'Thou shalt.' Holy God! how I hate him! 
Would that I had the chance to murder him ! I 
would cut his heart out to-morrow. And my 
father likes him, and has outlived rancor. And 
thou — thou art not indifferent. " 
''Go!" 
He threw his arms about her, kissing and 
caressing her. "My sister ! My sister ! Thou 
wilt ! Say that thou wilt ! " But she flung him 
off as if he were a snake. 
" Wilt thou go ? " she asked. 
"Ay ! I go. But he shall suffer. I swear it ! 
I swear it ! " And he rushed from the room. 
Chonita sat there, staring more fixedly at the 
floor than when Estenega had left her. 
XXI. 
Reinaldo did not go to his Prudencia. He 
went down to the booths in the town and joined 
the late revelers. Don Guillermo, rising before 
dawn, and walking up and down the corridor 
to conquer the pangs of Dona Trinidad's dulces, 
noticed that the door of his son's room was ajar. 
He paused before it and heard slow, regular, 
patient sobs. He opened the door and went 
in. Prudencia, alone, curled up in a far corner 
of her bed, the clothes over her head, was 
bemoaning many things incidental to matrimony. 
As she heard the sound of heavy steps she gave 
a little shriek. 
" It is I, Prudencia, " said her un cle. ' ' Where 
is Reinaldo? " 
'* I — do — not — know." 
" Did he not come from the ball-room with 
thee ? " 
"N-o-o-o-o." 
" Dost thou know where he has gone ? " 
'*N-o-o-o, sefior." 
"Art thou afraid?" 
 
''Ky I God— of— my— life ! " 
" Never mind, " said the old gentleman. " Go 
to sleep. Thy uncle will protect thee, and 
this will not happen again." 
He seated himself by the bedside. Pruden- 
cia's sobs ceased gradually, and she fell asleep. 
An hour later the door opened softly, andRein- 
aldo entered. In spite of the mescal in him, his 
knees shook as he saw the indulgent but stern 
arbiter of the Iturbi y Moncada destinies sitting 
in judgment at the bedside of his wife. 
" Where have you been, sir ? " 
" To take a walk, — to see to 
" No lying! It makes no difference where 
you have been. What I want to know is this : 
Is it your duty to gallivant about town ? or is 
your place at this hour beside your wife ? " 
" Here, senor." 
The old man rose, and, seizing the bride- 
groom by the shoulders, shook him until his 
teeth clattered together. "Then see that you 
stay here with her hereafter, or you shall no 
longer be a married man." And he stamped 
out and slammed the door behind him. 
XXII. 
We spent the next day at the race-field. Many 
of the caballeros had brought their finest horses, 
and Reinaldo's were famous. The vaqueros 
threw off their black glazed sombreros and 
black velvet jackets, wearing only the short 
black trousers laced with silver, a shirt of 
dazzling whiteness, a silk handkerchief twisted 
about the head, and huge spurs on their bare 
brown heels. Some of us stood on a platform, 
others remained on their horses ; all were wild 
with excitement and screamed themselves 
hoarse. The great dark eyes of the girls flashed, 
their red mouths trembled with the flood of eager 
exclamations ; the lace mantilla or flowered 
reboso fluttered against hot cheeks, to be torn 
off, perhaps, and waved in the enthusiasm of 
the moment. They forgot the men, and the 
men forgot them. Even Chonita was oblivious 
to all else for the hour. She was a famous 
horsewoman, and keenly alive to the enchantment 
of the race-field. The men bet their 
ranchos, whole caponeras of their finest horses. 
herds of cattle, their saddles and their jewels. 
Estenega won largely, and, as it happened, 
from Reinaldo particularly. Don Guillermo 
was rather pleased than otherwise, holding his 
son to be in need of further punishment ; but 
Reinaldo was obliged to call upon all the cour- 
tesy of the Spaniard and all the falseness of his 
nature to help him remember that his enemy 
was his guest. 
We went home to siesta and long gay supper, 
where the races were the only topic of con- 
versation ; then to dance and sing and flirt until 
midnight, the people in the booths as tireless 
as ourselves. Valencia's attentions to Estenega 
were as conspicuous as usual, but he managed 
to devote most of his time to Chonita. 
That night Chonita had a dream. She 
dreamed that she awoke without a soul. The 
sense of vacancy was awful, yet there was a 
singular undercurrent consciousness that no 
soul ever had been within her, — that it existed, 
but was yet to be found. 
She aros6, trembling, and opened her door. 
Santa Barbara was as quiet as all the world is 
in the chill last hours of night. She half
expected to see something hover before her, a 
will-o'-the-wisp, alluring her over the rocky 
valleys and towering mountains until death 
gave her weary feet rest. She remembered 
vaguely that she had read legends of that pur- 
port. 
But there was nothing, — not even the glow 
of a late cigarito or the flash of a falling star. 
Still she seemed to know where the soul awaited 
her. She closed her door softly and walked 
swiftly down the corridor, her bare feet making 
no sound on the boards. At a door on the opposite
side she paused, shaking violently, but 
unable to pass it. She opened the door and 
went in. The room, like all the others in that 
time of festivity, had more occupants than was 
its wont ; abed was in each corner. The shut- 
ters and windows were open, the moonlight 
streamed in, and she saw that all were asleep. 
She crossed the room and looked down upon 
Diego Estenega. His night garment, low 
about the throat, made his head, with its sharply- 
cut profile, look like the heads on old Roman 
medallions. The pallor of night, the extreme 
refinement of his face, the deep repose, gave 
him an unmortal appearance. Chonita bent 
over him fearfully. Was he dead ? His breath- 
ing was regular, but very quiet. She stood 
gazing down upon him, the instinct of seeking 
vapished. What did it mean ? Was this her 
soul ! A man ? How could it be ? Even in 
poetry she had never read of a man being a 
woman's soul, — a man with all his frailties and 
sins, for the most part unrepented. She felt, 
rather than knew, that Estenega had trampled 
many laws, and that he cared too little for any 
law but his own will to repent. And yet, there 
he lay, looking, in the gray light and the im- 
personality of sleep, as sinless as if he had been 
created within the hour. He looked not like a 
man but a spirit, — a soul ; and the soul was hers. 
Again she asked herself, what did it mean ? 
Was the soul but brain ? She and he were so 
alike in rudiments, yet he so immeasurably 
beyond her in experience and knowledge and 
the stronger fiber of a man's mind 
He awoke suddenly and saw her. For a mo- 
ment he stared incredulously, then raised him- 
self on his hand. 
" Chonita I " he whispered. 
But Chonita, with the long glide of the Cali- 
fomian woman, faded from the room. 
When she awoke the next morning she was 
assailed by a distressing fear. Had she been 
to Estenega's room the night before ? The 
memory was too vivid, the details too practical, 
for a sleep-vagary. At breakfast she 
hardly dared to raise her eyes, She felt that 
he was watching her ; but he often watched 
her. After breakfast they were alone at one 
end of the corridor for a moment, and she com- 
pelled herself to raise her eyes and look at him 
steadily. He was regarding her searchingly. 
She was not a woman to endure uncertainty. 
" Tell me,'* she cried, trembling from head 
to foot, the blood rushing over her face, " did 
I go to your room last night ? " 
" Dona Chonita ! " he exclaimed. " What 
an extraordinary question ! You have been 
dreaming." 
XXIIL 
We went to a bull-fight that day, danced that 
night, meriendaed and danced again ; a siesta 
in the afternoon, a few hours' sleep in the night, 
refreshing us all. Chonita, alone, looked pale, 
but I knew that her pallor was not due to 
weariness. And I knew that she was begin- 
ning to fear Estenega ; the time was almost 
