"In the same hotel?" 
"Yes." 
"But I had no acquaintance with madame, 
 
and had only exchanged a word or two with 
you, when you were suddenly summoned to Paris 
by a telegram." 
Braith bowed. He remembered well the false 
dispatch that had drawn him out of the way. 
"Well, and when you left, you told her you 
would be obliged to give up going to Cairo, and 
asked her to meet you in Vienna, whither you 
would have to go from Paris?" 
"Oh, did I?" 
"And you recommended a courier to her whom 
you knew very well, and in whom you had great 
confidence." 
"Ah! And what was that courier's name?" 
"Emanuel Pick. I wasn't fond of Emanuel 
myself," with a sharp glance at Braith's eyes, 
"but I supposed you knew something in his 
favor, or you would not have left er the lady 
in his charge." 
Braith was silent. 
"I understood him to be your agent/ 1 said 
the little man, cautiously. 
"He was not." 
"Oh!" 
A long silence followed, during which Mr. 
Bulfinch sought and found an explanation of 
several things. After awhile he said musingly: 
"I should like to meet Mr. Pick again." 
"Why should you want to meet him?" 
"I wish to wring his nose two hundred times, 
one for each franc I lent him." 
"How was that?" said Braith, absently. 
"It was this way. He came to me and told 
me what I have repeated to you, and that you 
desired madame to go on at once and wait for 
you in Vienna, which you expected to reach in a 
few days after her arrival. That you had bought 
tickets, one first-class for madame two second- 
class for him and for her maid, before you left, 
and had told her you had placed plenty of money 
for the other expenses in her dressing-case. 
But this morning, on looking for the money, 
none could be found. Madame was sure it had 
not been stolen. She thought you must have 
meant to put it there, and forgotten afterwards. 
If she only had a few francs, just to last as far 
as Naples! Madame was well known to the 
bankers on the Santa Lucia there! etc. Well, 
I'm not such an ass that I didn't first see madame and get her to confirm his statement. But 
 
when she did confirm it, with such a charming 
laugh, she was very pretty, I thought she 
was a lady, and your wife " 
In the midst of his bitterness, Braith could 
not help smiling at the thought of Nina with a 
maid and a courier. He remembered the tiny 
apartment in the Latin Quarter which she had 
been glad to occupy with him until conducted 
by her courier into finer ones. He made a gesture of disgust, and his face burned with the 
shame of a proud man who has received an 
affront from an inferior, and who knows it to 
be his own fault. 
"I can at least have the satisfaction of set 
ting that right," he said, holding two notes to 
ward the little "Mirror" man, "and I can't thank 
you enough for giving me the opportunity." 
Bulfinch drew back and stammered, "You 
don't think I spoke for that! You don't think 
I'd have spoken at all if I had known " 
"I do not. And I'm very glad you did not 
know, for it gives me a chance to clear myself. 
You must have thought me strangely forgetful, 
Mr. Bulfinch, when the money was not repaid in 
due time." 
"I I didn't relish the manner in which you 
met me just now, I confess, but I'm very much 
ashamed of myself. I am indeed." 
"Shake hands," said Braith, with one of his 
rare smiles. 
The notes were left in Mr. Bulfinch's ringers, 
and as he thrust them hastily out of sight, as 
if he truly was ashamed, he said, blinking up 
at Braith, "Do you, er would you may I 
offer you a glass of whisky?" adding hastily, 
"I don't drink myself." 
"Why, yes," said Braith, "I don't mind, but 
I won't drink all alone." 
"Coffee is my tipple," said the other, in a 
faint voice. 
"All right; suit yourself. But I should think 
that rather hot for such a day." 
"Oh, I'll take it iced." 
"Then let us walk over to the Cafe by the 
band-stand. We shall find the others some 
where about." 
They strolled through the grove, past the 
music-stand, and sat down at one of the little 
iron tables under the trees. The band of the 
Garde Republicaine was playing. Bulrinch ordered sugar and Eau de selz for Braith, and 
iced coffee for himself. 
Braith looked at the programme: No. I, 
Faust No. 2, La Belle Helene. 
"Rex ought to be here, he's so fond of that." 
Mr. Bulfinch was mixing, in a surprisingly 
scientific manner for a man who didn't drink 
himself, something which the French call a 
"coquetelle;" a bit of ice, a little selzer, a slice 
of lemon, and some Crnadian Club whisky. 
Braith eyed the well-worn flask. 
"I see you don't trust to the Cafe's supplies." 
"I only keep this for medicinal purposes," 
said the other, blinking nervously, "and, and 
I don't usually produce it when there are any 
newspaper men around." 
"But you," said Braith, sipping the mixture 
with relish, "do you take none yourself?" 
"I don't drink," said the other, and swallowed 
his coffee in such a hurry as to bring on a fit of 
coughing. Beads of perspiration clustered 
above his canary-colored eyebrows, as he set 
down the glass with a gasp. 
Braith was watching the crowd. Presently 
he exclaimed; 
"There's Rex now," and rising, waved his 
glass and his cane, and called Gethryn's name. 
The people sitting at adjacent tables glanced 
at one another resignedly. "More crazy En 
glish!" 
"Rex! Clifford!" Braith shouted, until at last 
they heard him. In a few moments they had 
made their way through the crowd, and sat 
down, mopping their faces and protesting plain 
tively against the heat. 
Gethryn's glance questioned Braith, who 
said, "Mr. Bulfinch and I have had the deuce 
of a time to make you fellows hear. You'd 
have been easier to call if you knew what sort 
of drink he can brew." 
Clifford was already sniffing knowingly at the 
glass, and turning looks of deep intelligence on 
Bulfinch, who responded gayly, "Hope you'll 
have some too," and with a sidelong blink at 
Gethryn, he produced the bottle, saying, "I 
don't drink myself, as Mr. Gethryn knows." 
Rex said, "Certainly not," not knowing what 
else to say. But the fondness of Clifford's gaze 
was ineffable. 
Braith, who always hated to see Clifford look 
like that, turned to Gethryn. "Favorite of 
yours on the programme." 
Rex looked. 
"Oh," he cried, "Belle Helene." Next mo 
ment he flushed, and feeling as if the others saw 
it, crimsoned all the deeper. This escaped 
Clifford, however, who was otherwise occupied. 
But he joined in the conversation, hoping for an 
argument. 
"Braith and Rex go in for the Meistersinger, 
Walkure, and all that rot, but I like some 
tune to my music." 
"Well, you're going to get it now," said 
Braith; "the band are taking their places. Now 
for La Belle Helene." He glanced at Gethryn, 
who had turned aside and leaned on the table, 
shading his eyes with his programme. 
The leader of the band stood wiping his mus 
tache with one hand, while he turned the leaves 
of his score with the other. The musicians 
came in laughing and chattering, munching 
their bit of biscuit, or smacking their lips over 
lingering reminiscences of the intermission. 
They hung their bayonets against the wall, and 
at the rat-tat of attention, came to order, standing in a circle with bugles and trombones 
poised, and eyes fixed on the little gold-mounted 
baton. 
A slow wave of the white-gloved hand, a few 
gentle tips of the wand, and then a sweep which 
seemed to draw out the long, rich opening chord 
of the Dream Song, and set it drifting away 
among the trees till it lost itself in the rattle and 
clatter of the Boulevard St. Michel. 
Braith and Bullinch set down their glasses 
and listened. Clifford silently blew long 
wreaths of smoke into the branches overhead. 
Gethryn leaned heavily on the table, one hand 
shading his eyes. 
"Oui c est un reve; 
Un reve doux'd amour " 
The music died away in one last throb. Bui- 
finch sighed and blinked sentimentally, first on 
one then on the other of his companions. 
Suddenly the little "Mirror" man's eyes bulged 
out, he stiffened and grasped Braith's arm; his 
fingers were like iron. 
"What the deuce!" began Braith, but, fellowing the other's eyes, he became silent and stern. 
"Talk of the devil do you see him, Pick?" 
 
"I see," growled Braith. 
"And, and excuse me, but can that be ma- 
dame? So like, and yet " 
Braith leaned forward and looked steadily at 
a couple who were slowly moving toward them, 
in deep conversation. 
"No," he said at last; and leaning back in his 
seat he refused to speak again. 
Bulfinch chattered on excitedly, and at last 
he brought his fist down on the table at his right, 
where Clifford sat drawing a caricature on the 
marble top. 
"I'd like," cried Bulfinch, "to take it out of 
his hide!" 
"Hello!" said Clifford, disturbed in his peace 
ful occupation, " whose hide are you going to tan ?" 
"Nobody s," said Braith, sternly, still watch 
ing the couple who had now almost reached 
their group. 
Clifford's start had roused Gethryn, who stirred 
and slowly looked up; at the same moment, 
the girl, now very near, raised her head, and 
Rex gazed full into the eyes of Yvonne. 
Her glance fell, and the color flew to her temples. Gethryn's face lost all its color. 
"Pretty girl," drawled Clifford, "but what a 
dirty little beggar she lugs about with her." 
Pick heard and turned, his eyes falling first 
on Gethryn, who met his look with one that 
was worse than a kick. He glanced next at 
Braith, and then he turned green under the dirty 
, yellow of the skin. Braith's eyes seemed to 
strike fire; his mouth was close set. The Jew's 
eyes shifted, only to fall on the pale, revengeful 
glare of T. Hoppley Bulfinch, who was half ris 
ing from his chair with all sorts of possibilities 
written on every feature. 
"Let him go," whispered Braith, and turned 
his back. 
Bulfinch sat down, his eyes like saucers. "I'd 
like but not now!" he sputtered in a weird 
whisper. 
Clifford had missed the whole thing. He had 
only eyes for the girl. 
Gethryn sat staring after the couple, who 
were at that moment passing the gate into the 
Boulevard St. Michel. He saw Yvonne stop, 
and hastily thrust something into the Jew's 
hand, then, ignoring his obsequious salute, leave 
him, and hurry down the Rue de Medicis, 
 
The next Gethryn knew, Braith was standing 
beside him. 
"Rex, will you join us at the Golden Pheasant 
for dinner?" was what he said, but his eyes 
added, "Don't let people see you look like that." 
"I I don't know," said Gethryn. "Yes, I 
think so," with an effort. 
"Come along, then!" said Braith to the others, 
and hurried them away. 
Rex sat still till they were out of sight, then 
he got up and turned into the Avenue de 1 Ob- 
servatoire. He stopped and drank some cognac 
at a little cafe, and then started on, but he had 
no idea where he was going. 
Presently he found himself crossing a bridge, 
and looked up. The great pile of Notre Dame 
de Paris loomed on his right. He crossed the 
Seine, and wandered on without any aim but 
passing the Tour St. Jacques, and wishing to 
avoid the Boulevard, he made a sharp detour to 
the right, and after long wandering through by 
ways and lanes, he crossed the foul, smoky 
Canal St. Martin, and bore again to the right 
always aimlessly. 
Twilight was falling when his steps were agt; 
rested by fatigue. Looking up, he found 
self opposite the gloomy mass of La Roquette 
prison. Sentinels slouched and dawdled up and 
down before the little painted sentry boxes under the great gate. 
Over the archway was some lettering, and 
Gethryn stopped to read it: 
"La Roquette, 
Prison of the Condemned." 
He looked up and down the cheerless street. 
It was deserted save by the lounging sentinels, 
and one wretched child, who crouched against 
the gateway. 
"Fiche moi le camp! Aliens! En route!" 
growled one of the sentinels, stamping his foot 
and shaking his fist at the bundle of rags. 
Gethryn walked toward him. 
"What's the matter with the little one?" he 
asked. 
The soldier dropped the butt of his rifle with 
a ring, and said deferentially: 
"Pardon, Monsieur, but the gamin has been 
here every day and all day for two weeks. It's 
disgusting." 
"Is he hungry?" 
 
"Ma foi? I can't tell you," laughed the sentry, shifting his weight to his right foot and 
leaning on the cross of his bayonet. 
"Are you hungry, little one ?" called Gethryn, 
pleasantly. 
The child raised his head, with a wolfish stare, 
then sank it again, and murmured: "I have seen 
him and touched him." 
Gethryn turned to the soldier: 
"What does he mean by that?" he demanded. 
The sentry shrugged his shoulders. "He 
means he saw a hunchback. They say when 
one sees a hunchback, and touches him, it 
brings good luck, if the hunchback is neither too 
old nor too young. Dame! I don't say there's 
nothing in it, but it can't save Henri Rigaud." 
"And who is Henri Rigaud?" 
"What! Monsieur has not heard of the affair 
Rigaud? Rigaud who did the double murder!" 
"Oh, yes! In the Faubourg du Temple." 
The sentry nodded. "He dies this week." 
"And the child?" 
"Is his." 
Gethryn looked at the dirty little bundle of 
tatters. 
"No one knows the exact day set for the affair, 
but," the sentry sank his voice to a whisper, 
"between you and me, I saw the widow going 
into the yard just before dinner, and Monsieur 
de Paris is here. That means to-morrow morning click!" 
"The the widow?" repeated Gethryn. 
"The guillotine. It will be over before this 
time to-morrow and the gamin there, who thinks 
the bossu will give him back his father, he'll 
find out his mistake, all in good time, all 
in good time!" and shouldering his rifle, the 
sentry laughed and resumed his slouching walk 
before the gateway. 
Gethryn nodded to the soldier's salute, and 
went up to the child, who stood leaning sullenly 
against the wall. 
i "Do you know what a franc is?" he asked. 
The gamin eyed him doggedly. 
"But I saw him," he said. 
"Saw what?" said Gethryn, gently. 
"The bossu," repeated the wretched infant, 
vacantly. 
"See here," said Gethryn, "listen to me. 
What would you do with twenty francs?" 
 
"Eat, all day long, forever!" 
Rex slipped two twenty-franc pieces into the 
filthy little fist. 
"Eat," he murmured, and turned away. 
CHAPTER VII. 
Next morning, when Clifford arrived at the 
Atelier of MM. Boulanger and Lefebvre, he found 
the students more excited than usual over the 
advent of a "Nouveau." 
Hazing at Julien's has assumed, of late, a 
comparatively mild form. Of course there are 
traditions of serious trouble in former years, 
and a few fights have taken place, consequent 
upon the indignant resistance of new men to 
the ridiculous demands forced upon them by 
their ingenious tormentors. Still the hazing 
of to-day is comparatively inoffensive, and there 
is not much of it. In the winter the students 
are too busy to notice a newcomer, except to 
make him feel strange and humble by their lofty 
scorn. But in the autumn, when the men have 
returned from their long out-of-door rest, with 
brush and palette, a certain amount of friskiness 
is developed, which sometimes expends itself 
upon the luckless "nouveau." A harmless 
 
search for the time-honored "grand reflecteur," 
an enforced song and dance, a stern command 
to tread the mazes of the shameless quadrille, with an equally shameless model, is usually the extent of the infliction. Occasionally the 
stranger is invited to sit on a high stool and read 
aloud to the others while they work, as he would 
like to do himself. But sometimes, if a man 
resists these reasonable demands, in a contumacious manner, he is "crucified." This occurs so 
seldom, however, that Clifford on entering the 
barn-like studios that morning was surprised to 
see that a "crucifixion" was in progress. 
A stranger was securely strapped to the top 
rungs of a twenty-foot ladder, which a crowd 
of Frenchmen were preparing to raise and place 
in a slanting position against the wall. 
"Who is it that those fellows are fooling 
with?" he asked. 
"An Englishman, and it's about time we put 
a stop to it," answered Elliott. 
When Americans or Englishmen are hazed by 
the French students, they make common cause 
in keeping watch that the matter does not go 
too far. 
"How many of us are here this morning?" 
said Clifford. 
"Fourteen who can fight/ said Elliott; "they 
only want some one to give the word." 
Clifford buttoned his jacket and shouldered his 
way into the middle of the crowd, "That's 
enough. He's been put through enough for to 
day," he said coolly. 
A Frenchman, who had himself only entered 
the Atelier the week previous, laughed and replied, "We'll put you on, if you say any 
thing." 
There was an ominous pause. Every old 
student there knew Clifford to be one of the 
most skillful and dangerous boxers in the school. 
They looked with admiration upon their 
countryman. It didn't cost anything to admire 
him. They urged him on, and he didn't need 
much urging, for he remembered his own recent 
experience as a new man, and he didn't know 
Clifford. 
"Go ahead," cried this misguided student, 
"tie's a nouveau, and he's going up!" 
Clifford laughed in his face. "Come along," 
he called, as some dozen English and American 
 
students pushed into the circle and gathered 
round the prostrate Englishman. 
"See here, Clifford, what's the use of interrupting?" urged a big Frenchman, 
Clifford began loosening the straps. "You 
know, Bonin, that we always do interfere when it 
goes as far as this against an Englishman or an 
American." He laughed good-naturedly. 
"There's always baan a fight over it before, but 
I hope there won't be any to-day." 
Bonin grinned and shrugged his shoulders. 
After vainly fussing with the ropes, Clifford 
and the others finally cut them and the "nouveau" scrambled to his feet and took an attitude 
which may be seen engraved in any volume of 
iustruction in the noble art of self-defense. He 
was an Englishman of the sandy variety. Orange- 
colored whiskers decorated a carefully scrubbed 
face, terminating in a red-brown mustache. 
He had blue eyes, now lighted to a pale green 
by the fire of battle, reddish-brown hair, and 
white hands spattered with orange-colored 
freckles. All this, together with a well made 
suit of green and yellow checks, and the see 
saw accent of the British Empire, answered, 
when politely addressed, to the name of Cholmondeley Rowden, Esq. 
"I say," he began, "I'm awfully obliged, you 
know, and all that; but I'd jolly well like to 
give some of these cads a jolly good licking, 
you know." 
"Go in, my friend, go in!" laughed Clifford; 
"but next time we'll leave you to hang in the air 
for an hour or two, that's all." 
"Damn their cheek!" began the Englishman. 
"See here," cried Elliott sharply, "you're only 
a nouveau, and you'd better shut up till you've  
been here long enough to talk." 
"In other words," said Clifford, "don't buck 
against custom." 
"But I cahn tseeit,"said the nouveau, brush 
ing his dusty trousers. "I don't see it at all, 
you know. Damn their cheek!" 
At this moment the week- weaned Frenchman 
shoved up to Clifford. 
"What did you mean by interfering ? Eh ! You 
English pig." 
Clifford looked at him with contempt. "What 
do you want, my little Nouveau? 
"Nouveau!" spluttered the Gaul, "Nouveau, 
 
eh!" and he made a terrific lunge at the American, who was sent stumbling backward, and 
slipping, fell heavily. 
The Frenchman gazed around in triumph, 
but his grin was not reflected on the faces of 
his compatriots. None of them would have 
changed places with him. 
Clifford picked himself up deliberately. His 
face was calm and mild as he walked up to his 
opponent, who hurriedly put himself into an 
attitude of self-defense. 
"Monsieur Nouveau, you are not wise. But 
some day you will learn better, when you are 
no longer a nouveau," said Clifford, kindly. 
The man looked puzzled, but kept his fists up. 
"Now I am going to punish you a little," 
proceeded Clifford, in even tones, "not harshly, 
but with firmness, for your good," he added, 
walking straight up to the Frenchman. 
The latter struck heavily at Clifford's head, 
but he ducked like a flash, and catching his 
antagonist around the waist, carried him, kicking, to the water-basin, where he turned on 
the water, and shoved the squirming Frenchman . 
under. The scene was painful, but brief; 
when one of the actors in it emerged from under 
the water-spout, he no longer asked for any 
body's blood. 
"Go and dry yourself," said Clifford, cheerfully; and walking over to his easel, sat down 
and began to work. 
In ten minutes, all trace of the row had disappeared, excepting that one gentleman's collar 
looked rather limp and his hair was uncommonly 
sleek. The men worked steadily. Snatches 
of song and bits of whistling rose continuously from easel and tabouret, all blend 
ing in a drowsy hum. Gethryn and Elliott 
caught now and then, from behind them, words 
of wisdom which Clifford was administering to 
the now subdued Rowden. 
"Yes," he was saying, "many a man has been 
injured for life by these Frenchmen, for a mere 
nothing. I had two brothers," he paused, "and 
my golden-haired boy " he ceased again, apparently choking with emotion. 
"But I say you're not married, you know," 
said the Englishman. 
"Hush," sighed Clifford, "I I married the 
daughter of an African duke. She was brought 
to the States by a slave trader in infancy." 
 
"Black?" gasped Mr. Rowden. 
"Very black, but beautiful. I could not keep 
her. She left me, and is singing with Haverley's Minstrels now." 
Like the majority of his countrymen, Mr. 
Rowden was ready to believe anything he heard 
of social conditions in the States, but one point 
required explanation. 
"You said the child had golden hair." 
"Yes, his mother's hair was red," sighed 
Clifford. 
Gethryn, glancing round, saw the English 
man's jaw drop, as he said, "How extraordinary!" Then he began to smile as if suspecting 
a joke. But Clifford's eye met his in gentle rebuke. 
"C est 1 heure! Rest!" Down jumped the 
model. The men leaned back noisily. Clifford 
rose, bowed gravely to the Englishman, and 
stepped across the tabourets to join his 
friends. 
Gethryn was cleaning his brushes with turpentine and black soap. 
"Going home, Rex?" inquired Clifford, picking up a brush and sending a fine spray of turpentine over Elliott, who promptly returned the 
attention. 
"Quit that," growled Gethryn, "don't ruin 
those brushes." 
"What's the nouveau like, Clifford?" asked 
Elliott. "We heard you instructing him a lit 
tle. He seems to have the true Englishman's 
sense of humor." 
"Oh, he's not a bad sort," said Clifford. 
"Come and be introduced. I'm half ashamed 
of myself for guying him, for he's really a very 
decent, plucky fellow, a bit stiff and pig-headed, 
as many of em are at first, and as for humor, I 
suppose they know their own kind, but they do 
get a little confused between fact and fancy when 
they converse with us." 
The two strolled off with friendly intent, to 
seek out and ameliorate the loneliness of Cholmondeley Rowden, Esq. 
Gethryn tied up his brushes, closed his color 
box and, flinging on his hat, hurried down the 
stairs and into the court, nodding to several students who passed with canvas and paint-boxes 
tucked under their arms. He reached the street, 
and, going through the Passage Brady, emerged 
upon the Boulevard Sebastopol. 
 
A car was passing and he boarded it, climbing 
up to the imperiale. The only vacant seat was 
between a great, red-faced butcher, and a market 
woman from the Halles, and although the 
odors of raw beef and fish were unpleasantly 
perceptible, he settled himself back and soon 
became lost in his own thoughts. The butcher 
had a copy of the "Petit Journal" and every 
now and then he imparted bits of it across Gethryn, to the market woman, lingering with relish 
over the criminal items. 
"Dites done," he cried, "here is the affair 
Rigaud!" 
Gethryn roused up and listened. 
"This morning, I knew it," cackled the wom 
an, folding her fat hands across her apron. "I 
said to Sophie, Voyons Sophie, I said " 
"Shut up," interrupted the butcher, "I'm going 
to read." 
"I was sure of it," said the woman, address 
ing Gethryn, " Voyons, Sophie, said " but 
the butcher interrupted her, again reading aloud: 
"The condemned struggled fearfully, and it 
required the united efforts of six gendarmes " 
"Cochon!" said the woman. 
"Listen, will you!" cried the man. "Some 
disturbance was caused by a gamin who broke 
from the crowd and attacked a soldier. But 
the miserable was seized and carried off, screaming. Two gold pieces of 20 francs each, fell 
from some hiding-place in his ragged clothes, 
and were taken charge of by the police." 
The man paused and gloated over the column. "Here," he cried, "Listen Even un 
der the knife the condemned " 
Gethryn rose roughly and, crowding past the 
man, descended the steps and, entering the car 
below, sat down there. 
"Butor!" roared the butcher. "Cochon! He 
trod on my foot!" 
"He is an English pig!" sneered the woman, 
reaching for the newspaper. "Let me read 
it now," she whined. 
"Hands off;" growled the man, "I'll read you 
what I think good." 
"But it's my paper." 
"It's mine now shut up." 
The first thing Gethryn did on reaching home 
was to write a note to his friend, the Prefect 
of the Seine, telling him how the child of Rigaud came by the gold pieces. Then he had a 
quiet smoke, and then he went out and lunched 
at the Cafe des Ecoles, frugally, on a sand 
wich and a glass of beer. After that he returned 
to his studio, and sat down to his desk again. 
He opened a small memorandum book and examined some columns of figures. They were 
rather straggling, not very well kept, but they 
served to convince him that his accounts were 
forty francs behind, and he would have to economize a little for the next week or two. After 
this, he sat and thought steadily. Finally he 
took a sheet of his best cream laid note paper, 
dipped his pen in the ink, and began to write. 
The note was short, but it took him a long 
while to compose it, and when it was sealed and 
directed to Miss Ruth Deane, Lung Arno 
Guicciardini, Florence, Italy, he sat holding it 
in his hand as if he did not know what to do 
with it. 
Two o clock struck. He started up, and 
quickly rolling up the shades from the glass 
roof, and pulling out his easel, began to squeeze 
tube after tube of color upon his palette. The 
parrot came down and tip-toed about the floor, 
peering into color boxes, pastel cases, and pots 
of black soap, with all the curiosity of a regulation studio bore. Steps echoed on the tiles out 
side. 
Gethryn opened the door quickly. "Ah, 
Elise! Bon jour!" he said, pleasantly. "Entrez 
done!" 
"Merci, Monsieur Gethryn," smiled his visitor, a tall, well-shaped girl, with dark eyes and 
red cheeks. 
"Ten minutes late, Elise," said Gethryn, 
laughing, "my time's worth a franca minute; 
so prepare to pay up." 
"Very well," retorted the girl, also laughing, 
and showing her pretty teeth, "but I have decided to charge twenty francs an hour from to 
day. Now, what do you owe me, Mon 
sieur?" 
Gethryn shook his brushes at her. "You are 
spoiled, Elise, you used to pose very well, and 
were never late." 
"And I pose well now!" she cried, her 
professional pride piqued. "Monsieur Bonnat 
and Monsieur Constant have praised me all this 
week. "Voila," she finished, throwing off her 
 
waist and letting her skirts fall in a circle to 
her feet. 
"Oh, you can pose if you will," answered 
Gethryn, pleasantly. "Come, we begin?" 
The girl stepped daintily out of the pile of discarded clothes, and picking her way across the 
room with her bare feet, sprang lightly upon 
the model stand. 
"The same as last week?" she asked, smiling 
frankly. 
"Yes, that's it," he replied, shifting his easel, 
and glancing up at the light; "only drop the 
left elbow a bit, there, that's it; now a little 
to the left, the knee, that will do." 
The girl settled herself into the pose, glanced 
at the clock, and then turning to Gethryn said, 
"And I arn to look at you, am I not?" 
"Where could you find a more charming ob 
ject?" murmured he, sorting his brushes. 
"Thank you," she pouted, stealing a glance at 
him; "than you?" 
"Except Mademoiselle Elise. There, now 
we begin !" 
The rest of the hour was disturbed only by 
the sharp rattle of brushes and the scraping of 
the palette knife. 
"Are you tired?" asked Gethryn, looking at the 
clock; "you have ten minutes more." 
"No," said the girl, "continue." 
Finally Gethryn rose and stepped back. 
"Time," he said, still regarding his work. 
"Come and give me a criticism, Elise." 
The girl stretched her limbs, and then, stepping down, trotted over to Gethryn. 
"What do you say?" he demanded, anxiously. 
Artists often pay more serious attention to 
the criticisms of their models than to those of a 
brother artist. For, although models may be 
ignorant of methods which, however, is not 
always the case, from seeing so much good 
work, they acquire a critical acumen which 
often goes straight to the mark. 
It was for one of these keen criticisms that 
the young man was listening now. 
"I like it very much, very much," answered 
the girl, slowly; "but, you see, I am not so cold 
in the face, am I?" 
"Hit it, as usual," muttered the artist, biting 
his lip; "I've  got more greens and blues in 
there than there are in a peacock's tail. You're 
right," he added, aloud, "I must warm that up 
 
a bit, there in the shadows, and keep the high 
lights pure and cold." 
Elise nodded seriously. "Monsieur Chaplain 
and I have finished our picture," she announced, 
after a pause. 
It is a naive way models have of appropriat 
ing work, in which, truly enough, they have no 
small share. They often speak of "our pictures" 
and "our success." 
"How do you like it?" asked the artist, ab 
sently. 
"Good;" she shrugged her shoulders, "but 
not truth." 
"Right again," murmured Gethryn. 
"I prefer Dagnan," added the pretty critic. 
"So do I, rather!" laughed Gethryn. 
"Or you," said the girl. 
"Come, come," cried the young man, coloring 
with pleasure, "you don't mean it, Elise!" 
"I say what I mean, always," she replied, 
marching over to the pups and gathering them 
into her arms. 
"I'm going to take a cigarette," she an 
nounced, presently. 
"All right," said Gethryn, squeezing more 
paint on his palette, "you'll find some mild ones 
on the bookcase." 
Elise gave the pups a little hug and kiss, and 
stepped lightly over to the bookcase. Then she 
lighted a cigarette and turned and surveyed her 
self in the mirror. 
"I'm thinner than I was last year. What do 
you think?" she demanded, studying her pretty 
figure in the glass. 
"Perhaps a bit, but it's all the better. Those 
corsets simply ruined you as a model last year." 
Elise looked serious, and shook her head. 
"I do feel so much better without them. I 
won't wear them again." 
"No, you have a pretty, slender figure, and 
you don't want them. That's why I always get 
you when I can. I hate to draw or paint from 
a girl whose hips are all discolored with ugly 
red creases from her confounded corset." 
The girl glanced contentedly at her supple, 
clean-limbed figure, and then, with a laugh, 
jumped upon the model stand. 
"It's not time," said Gethryn, "you have five 
minutes yet." 
"Go on, all the same." And soon the rattle 
of the brushes alone broke the silence. 
 
At last Gethryn rose and backed off with a sigh. 
"How's that, Elise?" he called. 
She sprang down and stood looking over his 
shoulder. 
"Now I'm like myself!" she cried, frankly; 
"it's delicious! But hurry and block in the legs, 
why don't you?" 
"Next pose," said the young man, squeezing 
out more color. 
And so the afternoon wore away, and at six 
o clock Gethryn threw down his brushes with a 
long-drawn breath. 
"That's all for to-day. Now, Elise, when 
can you give me the next pose? I don't want a 
week at a time on this; I only want a day now 
and then." 
The model went over to her dress and rum 
maged about in the pockets. 
"Here," she said, handing him a note-book 
and diary. 
He selected a date, and wrote his name and 
the hour. 
"Good," said the girl, reading it; and replacing the book, picked up her stockings and slowly 
began to dress. 
Gethryn lay back on the lounge, thoroughly 
tired out. Elsie was humming a Normandy fish 
ing song. When, at last, she stood up, and drew 
on her gloves, he had fallen into a light sleep. 
She stepped softly over to the lounge, and 
listened to the quiet breathing of the young man. 
"How handsome and how good he is!" she 
murmured, wistfully. 
She opened the door very gently. 
"So different, so different from the rest!" she 
sighed, and noiselessly went her way. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
Although the sound of the closing door was 
hardly perceptible, it was enough to wake 
Gethryn. 
"Elise!" he called, starting up, "Elise!" 
But the girl was beyond earshot. 
"And she went away without her money, too; 
I'll drop around to-morrow and leave it; she 
may need it," he muttered, rubbing his eyes 
and staring at the door. 
