nothing less. Yet why, he wondered, why 
might it no.t be perfectly practicable to use 
the one as means to the other ? His dis- 
missal and the reason of it, the banishment 
which had ensued, affected him remotely ; it 
was of these things that he thought. Surely 
the money which had been left to him was 
not money which Mr. Attersol could retain. 
There were certainly courts and codes 
enough to prevent him. And with that 
money it would not be difficult to support 
Myrrha until Mr. Attersol concluded to 
leave the planet and the twenty million 
behind. 

Manifestly he could not live forever. 
Quain's keen nostrils had already detected 
about him some trace of that aroma of fresh 
earth which is the pre-symptom of decay, 
and of Myrrha he now was confident. With 
two hundred thousand then for the needs 
of the present, of the future he felt secure. 

These preoccupations resulted in a con- 
sultation with a member of the bar which 





robbed him of much of his serenity. To 
begin with, there was not a thing except Mr. 
Attersol's own unwitnessed statement to go 
on. The records in the surrogate's office 
were examined ; the will of Quain's father 
was not on file. In the total absence of evidence, any action which might be instituted 
would be thrown out of court. There was 
but one course possible threats. And 
Quain consenting, a letter was prepared and 
sent one of those communications, at once 
courteous and ferocious, which are the aver- 
age lawyer's stock in trade. At the expiration of a fortnight, no reply having been 
received, a second and more aggressive 
missive was despatched. The result was 
identical, and the attorney stepped out. 

A month or two later, and Quain had so 
nearly run his tether that acceptance of Mr. 
Attersol's offer seemed obligatory. But an 
incident prevented. Chance took him into 
a gambling-house and permitted him to win. 
The next day he returned and won again. 
Thereafter he became an habitue, sometimes 





winning, sometimes losing, but managing 
usually to get out ahead of the game. In 
the course of these diversions he made an 
acquaintance a fat man with a hook in his 
nose and a jocular, cockney swing to his 
talk. In the lengthening evenings the two 
became intimate. They had seances over 
the bottle and exchanged cigars. One 
night Quain drank too much and unbur- 
dened himself. 

" And I say, Isaacstein," he announced, 
by way of conclusion, "that old scoundrel 
out of the way, and I am up to my neck in 
millions." 

Meanwhile he had written to Myrrha let- 
ters overflowing with rhetoric and pearls of 
thought. The answers were simple, but 
they were steadfast. And once hazard 
brought them face to face in the street. 
The interview was brief, yet it sufficed to 
show him that the girl was unchanged, per- 
haps unchangeable. And once he encoun- 
tered Mrs. Smithwick, who had not in the 
least understood the cause of her brother-in- 





law's edict and was inclined to condole with 
the young man in consequence. 

But after the unburdening alluded to, 
Isaacstein took him in hand. 

"You should helope," he kept saying. 
" Why, bless your sweet soul, the old toff 
will come down then quick enough, and 
don't you slip up and forget it." 

The value of this counsel was not to be 
talked away ; the difficulty lay in its ob- 
servance. Meanwhile, Parkhurst aiding, the 
gambling-house had been closed', and at the 
races Quain was not fortunate. The mod- 
ern Lochinvar has got to have enough in 
his waistcoat pocket to satisfy hotel-keepers 
and ticket agents, and at this juncture 
Quain was broke. But Isaacstein had not 
consumed whiskey and time for fun. 

"Hosvald, listen to me. You can't do 
this job halone. You need a pal. Vat will 
my share be if I show you 'ow and pull you 
through ? Talk square, and let's be hat it." 

It was then the ist of May. On the i3th 
the Attersol household removed to New- 





port. On that day two cheques, payable to 
bearer and signed Richard Attersol, were 
presented and paid. Of the amount thus 
collected Isaacstein received a fourth, the 
bookmakers the balance, a circumstance 
which annoyed Isaacstein thoroughly. Two 
days later another cheque was prepared and 
paid. Before the proceeds could be lost 
Quain and Isaacstein were in Newport. 
There the young man, without bothering 
with the bagatelles of the door, crossed the 
lawn and entered the room where Myrrha 
and her aunt were at tea. 

And now, as he stood alone in that 
room, it was these things that came back to 
him. He had work to do, however ; and, 
running his hand again through the tangles 
of his hair, visibly he composed himself to 
do it. But meanwhile all thought of elope- 
ment had evaporated. 

" If he makes that will to-night," he 
muttered, "we are done for." 



CHAPTER III 

TWENTY MILLION LESS TEN PER CENT 

" THE jig's up." 

In a sailors' dram-shop Isaacstein, loung- 
ing against the bar, was eying a thick glass 
thimble in which there was rot-gut. But as 
the words reached him he looked up, his 
yellow eyes charged with queries. 

" Vat ? Vat was that you said ? " 

Succinctly, one after another, yet in a 
voice inaudible six inches away, Quain 
related the incidents of the afternoon. As 
the tale continued, Isaacstein's nostrils contracted and bunched until he seemed all 
nose, until he seemed as though he were 
inhaling the fetidest of assafoetida. 

"I don't like that," he snarled, when 
Quain had finished. " I don't like that at 
all." And emptying the thimble he added : 
"Let's be hout of this. I must think." 





A moment, and they were in an alley ; 
beyond was a wharf on which freight was 
piled. 'Longshoremen were busy there, and 
at the extremity a man, swinging a lantern, 
was shouting hoarsely at the night. It 
was a spot quite suited to meditative 
chat. 

"The thing that stumps me," Quain con- 
tinued, " is the will. If he signs it to-night, 
there is no use." 

Isaacstein drove his hands into his pockets, and in fine bulldog fashion wobbled 
his head. 

"He sha'n't." 

And as Quain contented himself with 
staring, Isaacstein, his head still nodding, 
but more slowly now to the dawn of under- 
standing which he saw breaking in the 
young man's face, stared back. 

"He sha'n't. Ve'll prevent him. Ve'll 
prevent the old toff, that's vat ve'll do, 
von't ve, Hosvald ? It wouldn't be nice of 
us not to, would it, Hosvald ? " 

From the entrance to the alley a small 





mongrel emerged, barking uncertainly, the 
tail between its legs. 

" He would regret it, wouldn't he, Hosvald, all the rest of his death ? " 

" But how ? How are we going to " 

" How ? " Isaacstein turned ; the mongrel had approached circuitously, uncertain 
still. 

" Dere's 'a nice little dog. Dere's a 
werry nice little dog," he gurgled seduc- 
tively. " Vas a nice little doggie, vasn't 
you ? " 

And presently, through sweet beguiling 
words, the small beast suffered itself to be 
taken and patted on the head. 

"Yes, was a remarkably nice little dog," 
Isaacstein continued ; and, drawing a phial 
from his waistcoat, with one hand he caught 
the animal by the neck, then passing the 
stopper between its lips, let -it fall back 
lifeless and limp. 

" It was quite dead, Hosvald. Kick it 
and see." 

Quain shook his head. " It would never 





work. I doubt if they'd let me in, to begin 
with, and even otherwise, I should be sus- 
pected at once." 

" Of course, Hosvald, so you would, if 
you go to the front door and tell the 'ouse- 
keeper hall habout it. But vy should you 
do that? Vy shouldn't you go in by the 
vindow, by the old toff's vindow, and no one 
the viser, not even himself ? " 

Well, what then ? " 

" Vat then ? Vy, Hosvald, ven they take 
him his gruel in the morning they find he 
had a fit in the night. There'll be no 
hodor, Hosvald. Look at that little doggie, 
Hosvald. All the doctors in the vorld 
couldn't tell but vat that little doggie just 
died of old hage. 'Ave you had you' sup- 
per, Hosvald ? Veil, see there now. No 
man was brave on an hempty stomach. 
Come vid me, Hosvald ; come vid you' 
farder." 

On the main street was an eating-house, 
a whitewashed room, the ceiling astragaled 
and arabesqued with flies, the walls fes- 





tooned with alluring invitations liver and 
bacon, ham and eggs, coffee and cakes, 
corned-beef hash, all kinds of pie. 

" It isn't Delmonico's," said Isaacstein, in 
gracious apology. " But then, Lord love 
you, ve von't 'ave to pay twenty-five dollars 
for a steak." 

"And vat did the ladies do now?" he 
began anew, when food and flies had at last 
been brought. " Vat did Miss Myrrha say 
ven you valked in and kind of took 'em 
unavares ? And vat did her aunt say, and 
vat did you say to them ? Come, Hosvald, 
tell you' farder hall about it." 

" Myrrha didn't say anything. What the 
deuce would you expect her to say? The 
old lady looked a bit rattled at first, but she 
picked up the paper and began about some 
bloody Englishman or other who is lost 
Lord Cloden, I think. I say, waiter, haven't 
you any baldheaded potatoes ? " 

" Vat Henglishman did you say, Hosvald ? 
Vat Henglishman?" 

" Cloden, the viscount, marquis, or some- 





thing or other of Cloden. Why ? " and 
Quain looked up from his plate. 

" And he was lost ? " 

" So the Herald says gone astray in the 
upper reaches of the Amazon." 

Isaacstein nodded. " I knew his farder 
veil. A damned hold scoundrel, a swindler, 
Hosvald that's vat he vas, and his farder 
before 'im. A bad lot, Hosvald. He did 
Moss & Lewes in Golden Square. He 
did my sister-in-law's cousin Cohen, of 
Finsbury Pavement. He knew more than 
they did more than they did, Hosvald ! 
No, but he did, and that was the most I 
could say of any hearl in the peerage. Veil, 
and then vat ? " 

" Nothing there was nothing else. The 
old lady seemed to think it would be charm- 
ing to have the beggar meet Myrrha and 
marry her ; but Myrrha didn't take to the 
scheme at all." 

" Of course not ! The hidea ! A young 
lady like herself ! Vat would she want for 
to marry a little cadger like that? Hos- 





vald, I've seen him. Hosvald, I don't mind 
telling you he tried a post-hobit on me 
damme if he didn't and not a stick to post- 
hobit on, not a stump. Nothing, Hosvald, 
nothing. Hit was cruel. But I was onto 
'im. Hosvald, I know 'em root and branch. 
He wouldn't suit Miss Myrrha at all. Veil, 
and then vat ? " 

" Then what ? Why, then I asked her to 
go with me, and just when she said she 
would her father sent for me. I told you 
the whole thing an hour ago. What's the 
use in going over it again ? " 

" Her farder's room, Hosvald ? That was 
just over the balcony, vasn't it ? 'And 
over 'and, and there you are. That was it, 
vasn't it, Hosvald ? " 

< There you are, if you like. The coast is 
free ; I sha'n't interfere. But I won't go 
myself." 

" Not for twenty million, Hosvald ? Not 
for twenty million ? Vy, Hosvald, think ; 
vith twenty million you could say the World 
vas mine ! And, Hosvald now do take a 





little more of the steak, just this little and, 
Hosvald, no hodor. You should schmell 
that little doggie now. No hodor. It hall 
evaporates. Not a thing, Hosvald, on me 
'onor. 'Art failure, they will say. Lord 
love you, Hosvald, they've said it a thousand 
times before. They'll say it this time too. 
Vy, Hosvald, I'd do it meself if I was to get 
the plum. But you see I haint. Only ten 
per chent, which you might 'ave called it 
twenty. But there, Hosvald, you'll do the 
square thing by you' farder. I know you will, 
Hosvald. Hay, vaiter ! Were's the brandy ? " 

Quain pushed his plate aside and looked 
over at the Jew. 

" What is the stuff, anyway ? Chloroform ? " 

Benignantly, with that indulgence which 
superior wisdom brings, Isaacstein smiled. 
Before he could reply the waiter approached 
and lolled, affectionately familiar, against 
the table, ready to join in the conversation, 
to take a seat too, and share in the brandy 
as well. 





" Hot, isn't it ? You gentlemen are strangers, ben't you ? Going to pass the summer 
here ? " 

" Vat was that to you ? Be hoff ! " 

The man scowled and withdrew. 

Isaacstein's smile, overcast for a second, 
reappeared : 

" Take this, Hosvald, it will do you good. 
No, Hosvald, no vater, take it neat. 
Zere, that's something like. No, Hosvald, 
it vasn't chloroform, it was, h'm, it was, h'm, 
it was hydrocyanic." 

The effort at that H must have made the 
acid seem ludicrously impotent, or else the 
brandy was taking effect, for Quain laughed 
outright. 

" I say, Isaacstein, you remind me of a 
character in a novel. You are ornate, useful, beautiful to behold. You charm. 
There radiate from you emanations that 
clothe me with delight. You are frank a 
quality which is rare. But you have no 
conscience, which is commonplace. Every- 
body should cultivate one, though it be but 





for the pleasure of enjoying its qualms. 
Now be conscientious for a second, and tell 
me where you stole that stuff." 

" Were ? " Isaacstein put a finger to his 
nose and for a moment seemed lost in reflection. " I will tell you were. I will tell you 
haftervards. ' ' 

Quain contemplated the table-cloth. 
When he looked up, all sign of hilarity had 
gone. 

"See here, a fellow doesn't do a thing 
of that sort off-hand. He has got to kill 
phantom after phantom ; he has to have 
done it time and again in fancy before 
he can do it in fact. He must have accustomed his nerves to the idea." 

" And must a fellow haccustom his nerves 
to the hidea of preserving his life before he 
does anything to the other fellow vat has 
got him by the throat ? Must he, Hosvald ? 
Vat did the old toff say habout those 
cheques ? Tell you' farder again, Hosvald, 
tell 'im again. Those little bits of paper can 
string hout into ten years, Hosvald. Votild- 





n't you like to 'ave 'em back ? Wouldn't you 
like to 'ave 'em bin you' pocket ? Wouldn't 
you like to 'ave the will there, too ? 
Wouldn't you like to 'ave Miss Myrrha ? 
Wouldn't you like twenty million ? Tventy, 
Hosvald, hevery penny hof it except my ten 
per chent. Vy, of course you would, Hos- 
vald, and nothing to prevent you except 
you' conscience. You shouldn't 'ave no 
such thing habout you, Hosvald ; give it to 
the vaiter. And you haint frank vith you' 
farder neither, Hosvald, you haint frank 
vith him as he is vith you. You don't tell 
him little things. You like to tease you
hold farder, don't you, Hosvald ? You 
don't want him to know that you hintend 
to do the job by yourself and bilk him 
hout of his ten per chent. You don't 
want 'im to know that, eh, Hosvald, me 
boy ? " 

" Idiot ! " Quain snarled in exasperation. 

" That was it, Hosvald. Habuse you' 
hold farder, hinsult you' hold farder. He 
don't mind ; he'll go vid you, Hosvald ; 





he'll give you a lift, Hosvald ; he'll stand 
guard, Hosvald." 

And lowering his voice the Jew leaned 
across the table. 

"There haint no moon." 

Isaacstein dropped back in his seat, heavily, with the air of one who has had his say. 
But his eyes were on Quain, as were Quain's 
on him. And for awhile both sat, without 
a word, without a motion, staring at one 
another, until at last the Jew began to nod 
his head, as he had done on the wharf, then 
both stood up and passed into the night. 



CHAPTER IV 

THE HUSHING OF IT 

" THE requirements in Rhode Island are 
the same as in New York. Two witnesses 
are sufficient." And Bancroft handed to Mr. 
Attersol a will which he had just prepared. 

" It seems a pity," he added, in reference 
perhaps to the provisions of the instrument. 

But Mr. Attersol did not seem to hear. 
He held the paper to the light of a lamp, 
lost in its clauses. Bancroft went to the 
window. A gale was blowing, and the 
waters had recommenced their surge. 

" By the way, I omitted to tell you. 
When I left town this morning, Mr. Brisbane 
asked me to say that a cheque for seven 
thousand had come from Philadelphia. It 
had not your new mark on it, and he threw 
it out." 





" Ah ! It had been cashed, then ? " 

" By the Philadelphia Trust. They have 
taken it up, of course." 

Mr. Attersol raised his eyes. " Do you 
mean " 

"Yes, they turned it over to Byrnes." 

The document which Mr. Attersol held 
shook as though caught by the gale without. " Do they have they did Mr. Bris- 
bane seem to have any er any suspicions ? " 

" He said it was Quain," the lawyer 
answered shortly. 

The will fell from the old man's hand, and 
he stooped laboriously to recover it. But 
Bancroft crossed the room and picked it up 
before Mr. Attersol could reach it. 

"Thank you. I think" He turned, 
tottering a little, and seated himself. 
" What nonsense ! " he cried abruptly. 
" Brisbane is a fool. The cheque is right 
enough. I wish you would wire him to- 
night, Bancroft " 

" Certainly, sir, if you wish. But do you 





not think that such lenience, particularly as 
it seems to have happened before " 

" It won't happen again, I will see to 
that. In any event, Brisbane has no right 
to say it is Quain." 

"But it is Quain, sir." 

Mr. Attersol waved a hand impatiently. 

"Wire to Brisbane, and let the matter 
drop." 

" It shall be as you wish, sir, of course. 
But as he put my name on it too " 

" What ! " 

" The cheque was made payable to me ; 
the indorsement made it payable to bearer. 
It was because of that Brisbane spoke. Of 
course, the Trust people will want my testimony. As to the payee, there is not a 
doubt. The teller described him red hair, 
squat features, projecting teeth." 

"We must hush it up." 

The old man had turned ; he was livid, 
his head shaking with palsy. With one 
hand he grasped the arm of the chair, but 
the other was shaking, too. 





"Bancroft, we must hush it up." 

The lawyer raised his eyebrows. " It is 
compounding a felony, sir. But even 
otherwise, the law should take its course. 
The fellow is an unmitigated scoundrel. 
You put him from your office, from your 
house ; I need not remind you of the manner in which he conducted himself here this 
afternoon. His incarceration, it seems to 
me, is but a duty." 

Mr. Attersol looked down and away, hes- 
itant, perplexed. 

"You love her still, do you not?" he 
asked at last. 

" Myrrha ? Love her ? Why, Mr. Atter- 
sol, I would give my life for her." 

The old man nodded. " And I my two 
hands were she yours to-day." 

There had come a strange pathos to his 
voice, and to his great haggard eyes and 
tormented brows a look wistful in its melan- 
choly. 

" He is her brother ; we must hush it 
up" 





The words had struggled from beneath 
the breath, but in them was the crash of 
thunder. Bancroft started. The room 
seemed to be turning round. 

" I need not tell you of it all, nor would 
you care to know. We " and as the mono- 
syllable dropped from the old man, he made 
a gesture so significant in the remoteness 
which it evoked that it dispensed with 
explanations " we were to have been 
married, but at the time there were obstacles. It was at his birth she died. It 
was the sin of my life, and terrible has been 
the penalty. It is killing me, as long since 
it killed her." 

For a second he paused, a hand before 
his eyes ; but presently it fell again, and the 
confession continued. 

" Years after, when Myrrha was still a 
child, her mother learned the truth. It 
broke her heart. I think it killed her too ; 
she was never the same again. In every 
way I have been punished. And yet, as 
God sees me now, I did my best for the boy. 





He was my son in everything but name. I 
should have left him half of what I have. 
It was the sentiment I saw developing between him and Myrrha which forced me to 
act as I did. Tell me, do you think she 
still cares ? " 

" It is horrible," the young man muttered 
to himself. 

But Mr. Attersol must have heard or 
divined the words, for he raised his palsied 
hands in testimony and cried aloud : 

" It is worse ; it is life." 

Then he sank back shuddering, overcome 
by the changes of the tragedy he had unrolled ; and for a while there was silence in 
that room. 

" You should tell her," said Bancroft at 
last, very gently. 

As though issuing from the mists of 
dream Mr. Attersol answered, " I know it." 
Then he hesitated again and added : " But 
I can't. Nor in my place could you, could 
any one. I have tried. I have sought the 
courage I have failed." 





Again he hesitated, dejected still ; but at 
once, in a tone curiously humble, the tone of 
one imploring the alms of advice, furtively 
yet almost hopefully too, with that singular 
air which says Fate has done its worst, he 
began anew : 

" Might it not be, if we offered him a 
lump sum to renounce Myrrha and as 
alternative, arrest might it not be that he 
would accept ? I say a lump sum. He 
would have had half my property. This is 
not a moment to be paltry. Suppose I 
offer a million, two, five even ; that should 
satisfy, should it not ? " 

" Any one else, yes ; but him never. 
When a hyena has eaten, he is at peace 
with the world. But when were covetous- 
ness, crime, and folly filled? They are 
insatiable, and so is he" 

" He is my son," the old man interrupted, 
and then interrupting himself he added : 
" My son ! He is myself. The covetous- 
ness, crime, and folly that are in him are my 
own. It was from me he took them ; they 





are the legacies of my flesh. My covetous- 
ness has been the ruin of hundreds ; my 
crime preceded his birth ; but it was my 
folly to think that, criminal and covetous as 
I have been, I could elude the finger of 
God. There cannot be two hells, but there 
is one, and men such as I bear it in their hearts. You are right. I know my punishment is incomplete. Send for her. I will 
tell her, and then, God willing, I will turn 
my face to the wall." 

Bancroft raised a hand in protest. 

" It was not that which I meant, Mr. At- 
tersol ; indeed it was not. It was my dread, 
one which we all share, a dread which each 
day is increasing into conviction, that the 
disposition of your property will not affect 
Myrrha's feelings toward him in the least. 
It is that which should be counteracted," he 
added a little lamely, confused perhaps by 
the length of his own preamble, perhaps too 
by the vehemence of the old man's remorse. 
" That was what I meant, that and that 
only." 





But Mr. Attersol did not appear to no- 
tice, to heed even. 

" Bring her to me. Is it late ? Find her 
maid, then, and have her called. Perhaps 
yes, I had best see her alone. But come to 
me afterward. I am not well, and that will 
should be signed." 

He had risen, and putting his hands on 
Bancroft's shoulders looked him in the face. 
" Afterward " he accentuated the word 
