and he could not wholly conceal the admiration he felt for his brother
since he saw him take his place in advance of his detachment, and
vanquish the Texan lieutenant almost in the twinkling of an eye. "The
captain said you were reckless at the time of it."

"He don't say so now."

"You tried to leap your horse over rider and steed."

"Ceph did that on his own hook; and I could not very well help following
his lead, as I was on his back, though I had nearly slidden off when he
mounted in the air. I am not badly damaged, and I am ready to return to
the first company; I am only waiting for the captain to write a note to
the major."

"I am all ready to go back, though I should like to have Dr. Farnwright
dress the cut on my arm before I go," added Artie. "But he is too busy
with the men who are worse off than I am, and I will let it go as it is.
But here comes the captain with a paper in his hand. I suppose father
will wonder what has become of us."

"He must have heard the firing in this direction. Perhaps he has been
fully occupied himself, or he would have sent more men over this way."

No effort had been used to make prisoners of any of the Texans, for the
captain had his hands full. He was satisfied that Major Lyon expected
warm work where he was, for he would not have sent for the additional
force otherwise. The rest of the company with which he had been engaged
might be at no great distance from him, and doubtless this was the force
the first company was expected to encounter.

"Here is the letter, Deck, in which I have given a hasty statement of
the action," said Captain Truman, as he handed him the paper, which
could hardly be called a letter. "I believe we have met a portion of the
enemy he expected to engage; and probably he is not in a hurry, for we
have heard no firing at the south of us."

"We are all ready to go; but Artie has a wound in his arm which troubles
him, and there is no surgeon with the first company," interposed Deck.

"Farnwright!" shouted the captain, as he saw that he had just finished
his attention to one patient and was hastening to another.

The surgeon came promptly at his call, and proceeded to dress the arm of
the wounded soldier without his dismounting from his horse.

"I wish I had no worse cases than that, my boy," said the doctor.

"I am sorry you have, sir," replied Artie.

"You will be all right in a few days, my young friend; and I learn that
you have both fought like Trojans, though I believe Artie did not try to
leap his horse over any Texan's head," added Dr. Farnwright, with a look
of admiration at Deck, who appeared to have won the laurel of the day on
the field.

"Neither did I, Doctor. If any one tried to do a big thing, it was
Ceph," protested the hero.

"Ceph? Who is he?"

"My horse;" and Deck hastily gave his version of the daring deed, as it
appeared to be to those who had observed it.

But the dressing of the wound was finished, and the young soldiers
started on their return to the camp of the first company. The excitement
of the morning had subsided, and they began to feel the wear and tear to
which they had been subjected.

"We don't get such a morning's work as this every day in the week," said
Artie as they crossed the east road.

"But I imagine we shall get some worse days than this has been," added
Deck. "We haven't seen the end of this day yet, and we may be in another
fight before noon. I suppose these Texan troopers have been sent over
here to destroy the bridges on the railroad extending to Louisville."

"It isn't a great while since the Confederates were trying to keep the
road open," added Artie.

"The situation has changed since that, and we are farther along into the
war. Then they wanted to keep this road open, so that they could bring
provisions down for the use of the armies of the enemy. Now they want to
destroy them, to prevent the United States Government from sending
troops for the invasion of the Southern States," replied Deck.

The conversation the rest of the way was in regard to the events of the
day, filled up with surmises as to what the first company was doing.
When they left Major Lyon he was on the top of the planter's house,
surveying the surrounding country, wishing to obtain the first
intelligence of the approach of the enemy. Both of the messengers
wondered that he had not seen the coming of the detachment with whom the
second company had engaged; but they concluded that the road they had
taken led them beyond certain hills in that direction.

When the boys reached the mansion of Mr. Barkland, Major Lyon was still
on the house, and shouted to them to join him at once.




CHAPTER XIII

THE PERPLEXING MOVEMENTS OF THE ENEMY


The commander of the squadron had not yet become familiar with the
trials, doubts, and anxieties of military life in the midst of actual
fighting; and though he was as calm and resolute as ever, he seemed to
the boys to be greatly disturbed about something. Thus far all the
fighting had been done by the second company; but before this time Major
Lyon had confidently expected to be engaged with the cavalry which had
encamped three miles from the mansion of the planter.

The reputation of the Texans had been spread over this portion of the
State; and they were regarded as terrible soldiers, real fire-eaters,
and he had by no means underrated them. He had made the most careful
preparations to meet them, and had sent the two messengers to obtain a
re-enforcement from the second company, which had successfully
completed its work at the railroad bridge, and could spare a portion of
their strength.

Deck handed his father the letter from Captain Truman as soon as he came
into his presence. The major opened it without saying a word, for he
expected it to give him the information he had been so anxiously
awaiting. The firing to which he had listened, though it was so faint
that he could hardly make it out, had assured him that something not
laid down in his programme had been in progress. While he was reading
the hurriedly written communication, Deck and Artie busied themselves in
examining the region lying to the eastward of the mansion.

"The road by which the Texans came must be just beyond that hill, a
couple of miles from us," said Artie, as they went as far as they could
from the major. "I know I saw them come out from behind it; for I sat on
my horse, on the highest ground I crossed, watching them for some time."

"There's father's map," added Deck, pointing to the sheet which lay on
the railing that surrounded the platform; and then he went for it. "I
wondered father did not see this force from his high perch on this
house."

The young soldiers spread out the map, and examined it very closely.
They readily found the planter's house, and then a road, nearly parallel
to the east one, passing over several hills. The high ground, as they
made out the locality with the aid of the map, was covered with forest,
as marked and as they could see with their own eyes.

"They went behind that highest hill, and of course they could not be
seen from the top of this house," said Deck, as he restored the map to
the place where he had found it.

"I wonder he did not send more messengers down, to ascertain what had
become of the force he sent for," added Artie in a low tone.

"He was expecting an engagement with the Texans all the time, and had
prepared for it, so that he did not want to spare any of his men."

Major Lyon had finished the reading of the letter, which had evidently
given him some trouble, for it was written on horse-back with a pencil.
He had not heard the conversation of the sons, so deeply had he been
absorbed in the perusal of the missive from the bridge.

"It appears that you have had a fight near the bridge," said he, as the
boys approached him. "Both of you are very highly commended for your
courage and steadiness, and I am glad to hear so good a report of you.
And both of you have been wounded."

"Only some scratches, father," replied Deck. "I got one in the beginning
of the action; but it has hardly troubled me at all, and I was able to
do my duty through the whole of it.

"Deck was the hero of the day, and the whole company are talking about
him down at the bridge," said Artie.

"But I did no more than my brother. I think we both did our duty, if
saying that is not vanity; and we had better let it go at that," replied
Deck.

"We will let the matter rest till another time, at least," added the
major; "for I have something else to think of just now."

Major Lyon took his field-glass, and directed it to the south, as he had
done all the forenoon, looking for the approach of the main body of the
Texans. He scanned the region in detail, but nothing was to be
discovered. Then he proceeded to question his messengers respecting the
action, especially in regard to the manner in which it had been brought
about.

"There is something concerning the situation here which I cannot
understand," said he, with the same perplexed look he had worn since the
arrival of the messengers. "I expected your return about two hours ago."

"We started to come back as long ago as that," replied Deck. "When we
came to the cross-roads we discovered two mounted scouts on the east
road approaching us. One of them fired, and I was wounded in the arm. We
returned the fire, and Artie brought down one of them. The other went
back the way they had come. I returned to the camp to notify Captain
Truman, and Artie followed the retreating trooper."

Artie related his experience in looking for the Texans, and the result
of his search. Between them both they gave the details of the fight.

"Captain Truman stated that his orders were to join you here; but it was
plain enough to him that the camp at the bridge would be captured if he
took his force away," said Deck.

"He did quite right; and the approach of the Texan detachment in that
roundabout way put an entirely new phase on the situation," added the
major, looking down at the roof of the building, while his brow was
wrinkled by his active reflection. "We have been waiting since daylight
for the coming of the enemy down this south road."

"Do they know the Riverlawn Cavalry is here, father?" asked Deck.

"Of course they know it; for it appears that they send out scouts a long
way ahead, and they must have found out that we are here. I directed
Captain Gordon to send scouts out till he discovered where the enemy
were; and it is time we had a return from them."

"I have a return from my scouts," said Captain Gordon, springing to the
roof out of the skylight at this moment.

"Where are the enemy now?" asked the major anxiously.

"They were breaking camp when my men left," replied the captain. "I sent
six men, the most intelligent in the company, in charge of Sergeant
Knox, who has performed his duty very faithfully."

"He always does. Have your six men returned?" asked Major Lyon.

"No, sir; Knox returned alone to report. He left Sergeant Sluder and
the other four as pickets in the road a mile and a half from here, to
report the approach of the enemy if they came this way."

"But if they were breaking camp, why have we not heard from them before
this time?" demanded the major.

"Some of the troopers that escaped from the fight on the east road must
have reached the camp by this time," interposed Deck. "Of course they
have informed the captain of the company what happened over there."

"What fight?" asked the captain sharply, as he turned to Deck.

The captain had to be informed of what the major had already learned.

"This puts an entirely different complexion on the situation," said
Captain Gordon, when he had heard something about the fight with the
Texan cavalry. "That detachment of forty-five men were sent over to the
bridge. Now, the question is, What were they sent for?"

"I have no doubt the Texan captain is aware of the presence of the
Riverlawn squadron in this vicinity. He has found the road here picketed
by our men. It looks to me as though this detachment was sent round by
that back road to take us in the flank and rear when the main body came
down upon us in front. They have been waiting all this time for them to
get a position," said the major, with less anxiety on his face than
before.

"But those who escaped from the fight have now given him full
information that they were beaten off by our men," suggested Captain
Gordon. "They were preparing for a move of some sort; for Knox left his
horse in the road, and made his way through fields and groves, till he
was in sight of their camp."

"Have you anything to advise, Captain Gordon?" asked Major Lyon.

"I think I should attack them where they are," he replied.

"I cannot agree with you, Captain," added the superior officer.

"But we are losing time whatever we do," said the captain.

"We will march immediately, and with all the haste we can, to the
cross-roads. Give your orders to that effect without any delay. Send
the prisoners first, with a proper guard," said Major Lyon very
decidedly.

By this time Captain Gordon had acquired a great deal of respect for the
judgment of the commander, even in military matters; for he had proved
himself equal to the position in which he had been placed; and, mild as
he was ordinarily, he had shown that he had a will of his own. But the
captain proceeded to obey his orders without offering any objection, and
the major had not time to explain his plans in detail.

"Captain Truman and his detachment are coming," said Deck, who had been
using his father's field-glass for his amusement, while he listened to
the conversation at his side.

"Mount your horse, Artie, and give him my order to return to the
cross-roads!" added Major Lyon sharply.

Artie departed on the instant, and Deck remained on the roof. He could
see from his lofty position all that took place in the vicinity. He saw
the six prisoners, including his uncle, Captain Titus, marched down the
slope with an escort of half-a-dozen troopers. The baggage-wagons
followed them; and the company was formed in the road by fours. Captain
Gordon had hurried the preparations to the best of his ability.

"The pickets are coming in, Dexter," said Major Lyon, as he returned the
field-glass to the case slung at his side. "You can take your place in
the ranks, my son. Whether the pickets have been sent for, or are driven
in by the enemy, I don't know. We will see when we reach the ground."

The young man followed his father down the stairs. In the lower entry
they met the family; and the planter expressed regret that they were
about to leave the vicinity of his house.

"I have felt that I was protected from insult and depredation while your
command was here, and I am sorry to have you go," said Mr. Barkland.

"I am afraid we should do you more harm than good if we remained,"
replied the major. "If we stayed here it might produce a fight, and that
would imperil your family. I think the enemy will be too much in a hurry
to stop to molest you if they march by this road, as they may or may
not."

"I had hoped to see more of your son who rendered such a great service
last night," said Mrs. Barkland.

"And I wanted to see him very much," said the daughter.

"They have no time to meet you at present."

"But what is the matter with your arm, Mr. Lyon?" asked Miss Barkland,
when she discovered the extra bandage which the doctor had put on
outside of his coat.

"I got a scratch; but it wasn't the cat that did it," replied Deck,
laughing.

"Both of my boys have been slightly wounded to-day in the action down by
the cross-roads; but they are still able to do their duty, and I thank
God it was no worse," added Major Lyon, as he took the hand of the
planter.

They all took the hand of Deck, and repeated their thanks to him. He
followed his father out of the house, in front of which they met Knox.

"The enemy are moving down this road, Major Lyon," said the Kentuckian
as he saluted.

"All right; give the captain my order to march at a gallop," replied the
commander, as he mounted his own horse.

The column moved; and the major soon reached the head of it, where he
took his place by the side of the captain.

"The enemy have started upon this road," said he. "Whether or not they
have sent another detachment around by that back road can hardly be
known till we find them there."

"The captain of the Texan Rangers does not seem to have any contempt for
strategy, as was reported of him," replied Captain Gordon. "I have no
doubt his scouts informed him that the Riverlawn Cavalry were in camp on
the plantation."

"And I have no doubt now, from the way things have worked, that the
detachment were sent round to take us in the flank. They don't seem to
have made any connection with Captain Titus's company, and did not
expect to find one of our companies at the bridge."

There was some confusion ahead, and the company were thrown back. The
column had overtaken the prisoners and the baggage. The captain sent
forward an order for both to take the side of the road. The major saw
his brother drawn up with the others, and he shouted "Noah!" as he was
passing; but the commander took no notice of him.




CHAPTER XIV

A LONG WAIT FOR THE ENEMY


The only feeling Major Lyon had in regard to his unfortunate brother was
that of sorrow. If he had been disposed to do so, he could not leave his
soldiers to converse with him, as Titus evidently desired; for he was
hurrying the first company forward in order to unite his forces and
secure a favorable position before the enemy in his rear could overtake
him. Doubtless Titus desired to make a request of some kind; perhaps to
be set at liberty, perhaps only to demand a ration of whiskey.

The captain was so imprudent that he was as likely as otherwise to
reproach him, call him a thief, or something of that kind, as he had
done before, in the presence of his command. He had been captured in the
act of committing a dastardly outrage, as well as being in the military
service of the enemy. He was willing to extend to him every reasonable
privilege; but he was a prisoner of war, to take the mildest view of his
condition, and the major was not a man who could be conveniently blind
to an obvious duty.

The first company proceeded on its rapid march, and in a short time
reached the cross-roads, where it was halted, with the head of the
column near the camp at the railroad bridge. Captain Truman hastened to
the major as soon as he halted, and the commander extended his hand to
him.

"I commend you, Captain Truman, for the good work you have accomplished;
and I thank you for the skill, courage, and devotion with which you have
done your duty. But the enemy are in motion in this direction on the
south road, and we have no time for anything but preparation for the
immediate future. It is possible that a detachment of the enemy may
approach by the east road."

"I have a picket stationed a mile up that road, and we shall have early
notice of any force coming from that direction, Major Lyon," replied the
captain of the second company, which had just been sent back by the
order of which Artie had been the bearer.

"Very well. You have fought a severe fight, Captain; in what condition
are your men?" inquired the commander.

"They are in excellent condition; for they have found that they are
fully the equals of the Texans on fighting ground, and they are ready
and anxious to meet the enemy again. We have buried our dead, and our
wounded are doing well."

Major Lyon had carefully studied the face of the country for several
miles in the vicinity of the planter's mansion, from his elevated
position on the building, and had observed it for the present situation
as he rode down from the plantation. He had confidently expected an
attack while he was near the house of Mr. Barkland. He had arranged his
plan to receive the assault; and Lieutenant Belthorpe, with one-third of
the company, had been sent around through the grove to a position behind
a knoll, which would effectually conceal him from the enemy till the
time came for him to assail the Texans in the flank and rear.

Captain Gordon had heartily approved this plan, and they had force
enough to carry it out successfully. Major Lyon regretted very much that
the issue had not come in the manner he had anticipated. The plan
of the captain of the Rangers had evidently failed because he had not
heard from the detachment sent by the hill road, as the natives called
it. He must have had some means of knowing where this flanking party
were, or he would have moved sooner. Probably a swift rider was to have
been sent back when the force reached the cross-roads; but they had not
got so far as that. His first news must have been the defeat of this
portion of his command.

"Captain Truman, have you noticed a considerable knoll on the left of
the south road, just above the cross-roads?" asked the major.

"I have; and I thought of posting my reserve under Lieutenant Gadbury
there; but I found it was too far off for the time at my command,"
replied the captain.

"Can it be reached without going by the south road?"

"Very easily; by riding through this field, where we were posted this
morning, crossing the east road, and then through a valley, which will
conceal the force till they reach the shelter of the knoll."

"How many men can you muster in your company?"

"About eighty, if you are to remain in this vicinity; for ten or fifteen
will be a sufficient guard for the prisoners."

"Then you will march your available force to the point indicated. I see
that you have hoisted the American flag on the railroad bridge," added
the major.

"It is the camp flag, and I wanted it in the most sightly place I could
find," replied the captain.

"It will answer a double purpose, then. Could you see it from behind the
knoll?"

"Perfectly; we did not get the flag-pole elevated till half an hour
ago."

"I shall send Deck to lower that flag, and remain by the staff till I
give him the signal to hoist it again. Then you will march to the south
road with all speed, and attack the enemy in the rear or on the flank."

"I understand you perfectly, Major Lyon, and your order shall be carried
out to the letter," replied Captain Truman, as he saluted, and hurried
to his company, which had been formed in the field by the side of the
road.

"Dexter!" called the commander, when he had found his son in the ranks.


Both of the boys had been used as messengers during the morning, and
this service had led them into the most dangerous positions; and both of
them had fought like heroes as volunteers while their company was at the
plantation.

Deck came out of his place in the ranks, saluted his father, and
expected to be called upon for more messenger service, hoping it would
lead him into the thickest of the action, as it had before.

"Do you see that flag on the railroad bridge, Dexter?" asked his father,
pointing at the ensign.

"I do; and I take off my cap to it," replied Deck, suiting the action to
the word.

"You will go to it and haul it down, my son."

"Haul down the American flag!" exclaimed Deck.

"As long as it is not for a surrender or the abandonment of the camp,
you need have no scruples about it," replied the major, with a smile at
the boy's objection. "You will obey the order, and you will remain at
the staff. When you see me wave my handkerchief three times in the air,
you may set your conscience at ease by hoisting the flag again."

The commander made the signal over his plumed hat, so that the
messenger would be able to recognize it when it was given in the fight,
if there should be one, of which he was not altogether sure after the
disappointment of the morning.

"I shall see that signal from the bridge if it is made three miles off."

"Keep your eyes wide open after the engagement begins; for it is a
signal, really an order from me, of the utmost importance, and the
result of the action may depend upon it," added the major very
impressively. "I have called upon you for this service because I know I
can depend upon you, Dexter."

"Of course I shall do my duty and obey my orders to the best of my
ability," replied Deck; but judging from the expression on his face he
was not pleased with the mission assigned to him.

"You can go to the bridge at once; but you will not haul the flag down
till I make the signal agreed upon to you," added Major Lyon.

"But, father, do you expect to fight this battle without me?" asked
Deck, with a very cheerful smile on his face; and he would not have said
as much as that to any other person, even as a joke.

"You have made yourself the hero of the day, and perhaps you ought to
have a little rest," replied his father, quite as cheerfully as the son,
for he took the question as it was intended.

"I don't exactly like the idea of squatting on that bridge, and looking
on while there is any fighting going on," continued the young soldier.

"But the position to which I have assigned you is one of the most
important on the field. I can trust you to be watchful, while another,
interested in the action, might neglect his duty."

"I have nothing more to say, father," replied Deck, as he rode off in
the direction of the bridge.

Major Lyon had made his dispositions and issued his orders before he
spoke to his son. Captain Truman was galloping over the field towards
the east road, with sixty men, which was the number finally designated
for the service at the knoll. Captain Gordon had posted his men along
the roads and the adjoining fields. The baggage-wagons and the prisoners
had arrived from the plantations, and Captain Titus had an opportunity
to rejoin his company; but the glory of his military life seemed to have
passed away. He was treated the same as the rest of the prisoners, and
no one took any notice of him. He was not in good odor even in his own
company; for his men declared that he had deserted them the night
before.

The enemy had not yet appeared; and even the pickets that had been
posted a mile down the south road had not been driven in, which would be
the first indication that hostilities were at hand. Those from the
second company who were scouting the east road had not been heard from;
and they had been ordered to proceed as far as a certain hill, where
Artie had first seen the detachment sent that way.

Noon came, and the soldiers ate their dinner from their haversacks, and
the horses took their oats from the grass. It was a very quiet time, and
the Riverlawn battalion would have been glad to receive an order to
march upon the enemy wherever they could be found. They were impatient
for something to do, especially the first company, which had not yet
seen any fighting.

Major Lyon improved his time as he took his lunch with Captain Truman,
in listening to a fuller report of the action on the east road. The
commander asked particularly in regard to the lieutenant who had fallen
under the onslaught of Deck Lyon. He had been wounded in the chest by a
ball, and he had gone down from a cut of the young soldier's sabre. He
had been stunned by the blow, and left on the field. But he had been
conveyed to the camp in the wagon with other wounded men, and the
surgeon had dressed his wounds. He believed he would recover.

"I should like to see that man," said the major.

"I saw him walking about the shanty hospital not long ago. I spoke with
him, and he is a very gentlemanly fellow. You can send for him if you
wish, Major. But it is time for me to join my company, as I sent the men
in charge of Lieutenant Gadbury; for I had to give some orders in regard
to the prisoners."

"I will not send for him; but I will ride down to the hospital, which is
only a few rods from the cross-roads. Captain Gordon, I wish to have
some one near me to carry my orders, if need be," said the commander, as
Captain Truman rode off.

"Your orderly?" asked the captain.

"I prefer Artie Lyon; I have already sent Dexter on duty upon the
bridge. I am going down to the hospital; send me notice at once if any
movement is apparent."

Artie was sent to him at once; but Deck had told him where he was going,
and he hoped he would not be sent to join him. He followed his father to
the hospital, where Dr. Farnwright received him. He asked for the Texan
lieutenant; and the surgeon pointed him out, seated on a log at the side
of the road.

"This is Major Lyon, commanding the squadron," said the doctor,
introducing him.

The officer rose from his seat, and saluted the major very politely.

"This gentleman is Lieutenant Makepeace, of the Texan Rangers," added
the surgeon.

"That does not sound like a Southern name," replied Major Lyon, and he
took the hand of the wounded officer.

"I am a Northern man; but my home has been in Texas for seven years,
though I came from a New England State."

"I regret to see you on the wrong side in this war, though I am sorry
that you have been wounded."

"I don't know exactly how I came in this service; but I was very near
being elected to the captaincy of this company, though I am not a
Texan."

"Who is the commander of the company?"

"Captain Dingfield."

"There comes the picket down the hill!" exclaimed Artie, who had
discovered half-a-dozen men running their horses down the descent.

"Then I must leave you; but I shall see you again," added the major, as
he dashed up the road at full speed.




CHAPTER XV

THE AMERICAN FLAG ON THE BRIDGE


As Major Lyon rode out from the hospital he encountered Sergeant Sluder
pressing his horse to the best of his speed; but it was hardly necessary
for him to deliver the message of which he was the bearer, for there was
movement enough among the men to assure him that the enemy were
approaching, even if Artie had not seen the return of the pickets.

The major waved his handkerchief three times above his plumed hat, and
the American flag came down at once on the bridge. Deck had not fallen
asleep at his post, though he found the situation very monotonous. The
sergeant reached the commander, and delivered a message from Captain
Gordon. The major had never been in a regular battle, only in the
affairs with the ruffians at Riverlawn and Lyndhall.

In fact, there had been nothing in the present campaign which could
properly be called a battle. The second company had done all the
fighting so far. At the bridge a few shots had demoralized the Home
Guards; and though the action in the road had been severe, it was hardly
more than a skirmish. But the commander had proved before that he had
abundance of courage, though he had engaged in less actual fighting than
his two sons.

Major Lyon reached the position of Captain Gordon just as the pickets
came in, headed by Life Knox. The men were all in position, and those of
the first company were eager for the conflict; for they had done
nothing, and rather envied their companions in the second company, who
had fought and won a victory against a portion of the enemy. They were
very much excited, and it would have suited them better if their captain
had led them in a charge at once against the Texans; for the most trying
position of the ordinary soldier is when he is in the presence of the
enemy, and is permitted to do nothing but wait; and they had been doing
that all day.

"You have been driven in, Knox," said Captain Gordon, as the sergeant
saluted him.

"Not exactly driven in, Captain," replied the Kentuckian with a cheerful
smile, as though events were not moving half fast enough for him. "The
Texicans are marching as though they were going to a funeral, and they
don't seem to be in no hurry to git here."

"But you came down the slope as though you were not going to a funeral,"
added the captain.

"Where are the enemy now, Knox?" asked the major.

"They are about half-way betwixt here and the mansion-house of the
planter. I didn't hurry up to tell you they were coming, but to let you
know that I had seen a force over on the road in the hills. I thought I
saw something moving; and I climbed to the top of the tallest tree I
could find, on the highest ground 'twixt here and the planter's house."

"What did you see?" demanded the major.

"I got a look through a small notch between two hills, and I saw some
cavalry pass along; but I reckon I saw only the tail end on 'em, for
they was out o' sight in two seconds, and I couldn't find nothin' more
on 'em. I knew then why the company wasn't in no hurry."

"Then, I suppose we are in no hurry," added the major. "I see that
Captain Dingfield intends to carry out his plan as he laid it out for
this forenoon."

"Who?" asked the captain.

"Captain Dingfield, who commands the Texans; I learned his name from the
lieutenant who was wounded. I hardly supposed he would send another
flanking party by that road," replied Major Lyon, "This news calls for
some change in our plans."

"I reckon that captain on the south road hain't got over fifty men with
him, if he has that," continued the sergeant.

"How could you estimate the number, Knox," asked the captain.

"When I am sent out scouting, I generally find out all I can," replied
the sergeant, who looked as though he felt that the correctness of his
information had been questioned.

"We know you do, Knox; and we only want to know your means of arriving
at a conclusion, in order to judge of the accuracy of your report," the
captain explained.

"I looked them over when I climbed the tree," continued the scout with
energy. "The force was just coming round a bend in the road down a hill,
and I counted in fours up to forty. I don't know how many scouts they
had out ahead, but I added ten to what I had counted."

"I have no doubt you are quite correct, Sergeant," added the captain. "I
did not doubt your statement in the first place, and I was only curious
to know how you were able to make up your estimate."

"I saw that six of you came down the hill together; have you left no
pickets in front of the company?" inquired the major.

"The captain gave me nine men to scout the region over there, and six of
'em have come in, for I thought they might be wanted," answered Knox.

"You knew that we had nearly two hundred men at this point," suggested
the major, who realized that the sergeant had something in his mind to
which he was slow to give utterance.

"If this is a council of war, Major Lyon, I ain't in it, and I've told
all I know," replied Knox. "I have reported that the Texicans is divided
into two bodies, one on 'em comin' down the south road slower'n cold
molasses runs, and the other's movin' over the hill road; and I reckon
they ain't goin' to no funeral over yonder."

"In other words, you think the two divisions of the enemy intend to
attack at the same time," added the major.

"What be they goin' over that way for if that ain't what they mean?"
asked the Kentuckian in answer to the question. "But I don't feel sartin
that they mean to come down here by the east road."

"What else can they do?" inquired the major, much interested in drawing
out the sergeant.

"I don't reckon I'd better say anything more. I obey orders, but I don't
give none," answered Knox, who was evidently afraid of thrusting himself
into the counsels of his superiors. "Captain Dingbat"--

"Dingfield," interposed the captain with a smile.

"Captain Dingfield sent them men over here to knock down and burn that
bridge; and I reckon he's go'n' to do it if he can."

"And I am sent here to prevent him from doing it; and I shall do so if I
can. You may speak out loud, Knox, just what you wish to say," said the
major rather impatiently.

"If you look at that map you had on the housetop, you will see that the
hill road crosses the east road, just as this south one does here. Ain't
that so, Artie? You have been over there, they say," said the sergeant,
appealing to the major's aid.

"It does; I was up there some time this morning; but I don't know where
it leads to," replied Artie.

"It stands to reason that it crosses this railroad somewhere within five
miles of this cross-road. That's the way the Texicans are coming down
here to destroy the bridge. I've said my say, and I hain't got nothin'
more to say," added Knox, wheeling his horse out of the circle that
surrounded the commander.

"Artie, do you know where Captain Truman is posted with his command?"
asked the major in rather hurried tones.

"I do not," replied the aid, as he had now practically become, though
the position was not regular for a private.

The commander pointed out the knoll behind which the captain's force had
been sent.

"Follow the east road till you can see behind that hill. Captain Truman
is there, and you can readily find him," continued Major Lyon. "Give
him my order to move his command out to the east road, and there await
