it.”

“If you had written it yourself”--suggested Bayard humbly. “But of
course you had other things to do.”

Helen gave him an inscrutable look. She made no reply. They passed
the fish-house, and the old clam-digger, who was sitting on his
overturned basket in the sun, opening clams with a blunt knife, and
singing hoarsely:--

    “The woman’s ashore,
    The child’s at the door,
      The man’s at the wheel.

    “Storm on the track,
    Fog at the back,
      Death at the keel.

    “You, mate, or me,
    Which shall it be?
    God, He won’t tell.
    Drive on to ----!”

“There is Mr. Salt,” said Helen; for the two had come slowly up in
silence to the old gate, (fastened with a rope tied in a sailor’s
knot), that gave the short cut across the meadow to the Mainsail
summer hotel.

“He is watching for me. How sober he looks! Perhaps something
dreadful has happened to Mrs. Salt. Wait a minute. Let me run in!”

She tossed her sun-umbrella, gloves, and saxifrage in a heap across
Bayard’s arm, and ran like a girl or a collie swaying across the
meadow in the wind. In a few minutes she walked back, flushed and
laughing.

“Pepper can’t go!” she cried. “He’s got the colic. He’s swallowed a
celluloid collar. Mr. Salt says he thought it was sugar. I must go
right along and catch the car.”

“You have eight minutes yet,” said Bayard joyously, “and I can go
too!”

The car filled up rapidly; they chatted of little things, or sat in
silence. Jane Granite came aboard as they passed her mother’s door.
Bayard lifted his hat to her cordially; she was at the further end
of the car; she got off at a grocery store, to buy prunes, and did
not look back. She had only glanced at Helen Carruth. Bayard did
not notice when Jane left.

The train came in and went out. Helen stood on the platform leaning
over to take her saxifrage: a royal vision, blurring and melting in
purple and gold before his eyes.

The train came in and went out; her laughing eyes looked back from
the frame of the car window. The train went out. He turned away
and went slowly home.

Jane had not returned, and Mrs. Granite was away. The house was
deserted, and the evening was coming on cold. He climbed the steep
stairs wearily to his rooms, and lighted a fire, for he coughed a
good deal. He had to go down into the shed and bring up the wood
and coal. He was so tired when this was done that he flung himself
upon the old lounge. He looked slowly about his dismal rooms: at
the top curl of the iron angel on the ugly stove; at the empty,
wooden rocking-chair with the bones; at the paper screen, where the
Cupid on the basket of grapes sat forever tasting and never eating
impossible fruit; at the study-table, where the subscription list
for his quarter’s salary lay across the manuscript notes of his
last night’s sermon. The great Saint Michael on the wall eyed him
with that absence of curiosity which belongs to remote superiority.
Bayard did not return the gaze of the picture. He took something
from his vest-pocket and looked at it gently, twisting it about in
his thin hands. It was a sprig of saxifrage, whose white blossom
was hanging its head over upon the dry, succulent stem. Bayard got
up suddenly, and put the flower in a book upon his study-table.

As he did so, a short, soft, broken sound pattered up the stairs.
The door opened without the preliminary of a knock, and little Joey
Slip walked seriously in. He said he had come to see the minister.
He sat down sedately and ceremoniously upon the carpet-lounge. He
said Marm said to say Father’s home from Georges’ drunk as a fish.
He put out his little fingers and patted Bayard on the cheek, as if
the minister had been the child, and Joey the old, old man.




XII.


It was night, and it was Angel Alley. One of the caprices of New
England spring had taken the weather, and it had suddenly turned
cold. The wind blew straight from the sea. It was going to rain.
The inner harbor was full; in the dark, thick air bowsprits nodded
and swung sleepily, black outlines against little glimmering
swathes of grayish-yellow cut by the headlights of anchored
vessels. Dories put out now and then from the schooners, and rowed
lustily to the docks; these were packed with sailors or fishermen
who leaped up the sides of the wharves like cats, tied the painter
to invisible rings in black, slimy places, and scrambled off,
leaving the dory to bob and hit the piers; or they cast the painter
to the solitary oarsman, who rowed back silently to the vessel,
while his gayer shipmates reeled, singing, over the wharves and
disappeared in the direction of the town.

The sky was heavily clouded, and fog was stealing stealthily off
the Point.

Angel Alley was full, that night. Half a dozen large fishermen
were just in from Georges’; these had made their trip to Boston
to sell their cargoes of halibut, haddock, or cod, and had run
home quickly on a stiff sou’easter, or were unloading direct at
their native wharves. The town overflowed with men of unmistakably
nautical callings, red of face, strong of hand, unsteady of
step; men with the homeless eye and the roving heart of the sea:
Americans, Scotch, Swedes, Portuguese, Italians, Irish, and Finns
swung up together from the wharves and swarmed over the alley,
ready for a song, a laugh or a blow, as the case might be; equally
prepared to smoke, to love, to quarrel, or to drink, liable to
drift into a prayer-room or a bar-room, just as it happened, and
there was small space to doubt which would happen; men whose
highest aspiration was to find the barber and the boot-black; men
who steered steadily home, thinking of their baby’s laugh, and the
wife’s kiss; and men who turned neither to the right nor to the
left, who lingered for neither men nor gods nor women, but pushed,
with head thrust out like a dog’s on the scent, straight on to the
first saloon that gaped at them.

Open and secret, lawful and unlawful, these were of an incredible
number, if one should estimate the size of the short street.
Angel Alley overflowed with abomination, as the tides, befouled
by the town, overflowed the reeking piers of the docks. In
sailors’ boarding-houses, in open bars, in hidden cellars, in
billiard-rooms, in shooting-galleries, in dance-halls, and in
worse, whiskey ran in rivers. At the banks of those black streams
men and some women crawled and drank, flaunting or hiding their
fiery thirst as the mood took them, and preying upon one another,
each according to his power or his choice, as the chance of an evil
hour decreed.

Girls with hard eyes and coarse mouths strutted up and down the
alley in piteous numbers. Sights whose description cannot blot
this page might have been detected in the shadows of the wharves
and of the winding street. Men went into open doors with their
full trips’ earnings in their pockets, and staggered out without a
penny to their shameful names. Fifty, seventy, a hundred dollars,
vanished in the carouse of a single hour. One man, a foreigner,
of some nationality unknown, ran up and down, wildly calling for
the police. He had been robbed of two hundred dollars in a drunken
bout, last night; he had but just come to such senses as nature
may have given him, and to the discovery of his loss. His wife,
he said, lived over in West Windover; she warn’t well when he
shipped; there was another baby,--seven young ones already,--and
she couldn’t get trust at the stores, the bills had run up so long.

“Lord!” he said stupidly; “s’pose I find ’em layin’ round starved?”

He stoutly refused to go home. He swore he’d rather go to jail than
face her. He sat down on the steps of old Trawl’s, sobbing openly,
like a child. A little crowd gathered, one or two voices jeered at
him, and some one scolded him smartly, for no one moralizes more
glibly than the sot in his intervals of sobriety.

“Oh, shut up there!” cried the girl Lena. “Ain’t he miser’ble
enough already? Ain’t all of us that much?--Go home, Jean!” she
urged kindly; “go home to Marie. She won’t cuss you.”

“She never cussed me yet,” answered Jean doubtfully.

He got up and reeled away, wringing his stubbed hands. Lena walked
up the alley, alone; her eyes were on the ground; she did not
answer when one of the girls called her; she strolled on aimlessly,
and one might almost say, thoughtfully.

“Better come in, Lena,” said a voice above her. She looked up.
The beautiful new transparency, which was still the wonder and
admiration of the fishermen coming home from Georges’ or the Banks,
flashed out in strong white and scarlet lights the strange words,
now grown familiar to Angel Alley:--

  “THE CHURCH OF THE LOVE OF CHRIST.”

Beneath, in the broken, moving color stood the minister; his foot
was on the topmost step of the long flight; he looked pale and
tired.

“Isn’t it better for you in here, than out there?” he asked gently.
Lena gave one glance at his pitying eyes; then she followed that
brilliance like a moth.

He stepped back and allowed her to precede him, as if she had been
any other woman, the only difference being one which the girl was
not likely to notice: the minister did not lift his hat to Lena.
She hung her head and went in.

“They are singing to-night--practicing for their concert,” he said.
“Perhaps they might like the help of your voice.”

She made no answer, and the preacher and the street girl entered
the bright hall together.

It was well filled with well-behaved and decently dressed groups of
men and women; these were informally scattered about the main room
and the ante-rooms, for no service was in progress; the whole bore
the appearance of a people’s club, or social entertainment, whose
members read or chatted, played games, or sang, as the mood took
them.

A bowling-alley and a smoking-room adjoined; these last were often
quite full and busy with fishermen and sailors; but that night the
most of the people were listening to the singing. Music, Bayard had
already learned, would lead them anywhere. At the first sound of
the poor and pathetic melodeon, they had begun to collect around
the net of harmony like mackerel round a weir. When Lena came
into the room, the little choir were singing the old-fashioned,
beautiful Ave Sanctissima which even Angel Alley knew. Lena dropped
into an obscure seat, and remained silent for a time. Suddenly her
fine contralto rang in,--

    “’Tis midnight on the sea.
          Ora pro nobis,
    We lift our souls to thee.”

The minister, distant and pale, blurred before her eyes while
she sang. He looked like a figure resting on a cloud in a sacred
picture. He moved about among his people, tall, smiling, and
shining. They looked at him with wistful, wondering tenderness.
He passed in and out of the halls on errands whose nature no one
asked. Occasionally he returned, bringing some huddling figure with
him from the street; a homesick boy, a homeless man, a half-sodden
fellow found hesitating outside of Trawl’s den, midway between
madness and sanity, ready for hell or heaven, and following Bayard
like a cur.

       

Down the dark throat of Angel Alley a man, that night, was doing
a singular thing. He was a fisherman, plainly one of the recent
arrivals of the anchored fleet; he was a sturdily built fellow with
a well-shaped head; he had the naturally open face and attractive
bearing often to be found among drinking men; at his best he must
have been a handsome, graceful fellow, lovable perhaps, and loving.
At his worst, he was a cringing sot. He wore, over his faded
dark-red flannel shirt, the gingham jumper favored by his class;
and it seemed he had lost his hat. This man was monotonously moving
to and fro, covering a given portion of Angel Alley over and again,
retracing his unsteady footsteps from point to point, and repeating
his course with mysterious regularity. His beat covered the space
between the saloon of old Trawl (which stood about midway of the
alley) and the scarlet and white transparency, whose strange and
sacred heraldry blazed, held straight out, an arm of fire, across
the mouth of the street. Angel Alley, as we have explained, had, at
the first, inclined to call the mission Christ’s Rest, for reasons
of its own; but even that half-godless reminder of a history better
forgotten was growing out of date. The people’s name for Emanuel
Bayard’s house of worship and of welcome was fast settling into one
beautiful word--Christlove.

The fisherman in the jumper wavered to and fro between Christlove
and the ancient grogshop. In the dark weather the figure of the
man seemed to swing from this to that like a pendulum; at moments
he seemed to have no more sense or sentience. He was hurled as if
he were forced by invisible machinery; he recoiled as if wound by
unseen springs; now his steps quickened into a run, as he wrenched
himself away from the saloon, and faced the prayer-room; then they
lagged, and he crawled like a crab to the rum-shop door. His hands
were clenched together. Long before it began to rain his hatless
forehead was wet.

His eyes stared straight before him. He seemed to see nothing but
the two open doors between which he was vibrating. No one had
happened to notice him, or, if so, his movements were taken for
the vagaries of intoxication. A nerve of God knows what, in his
diseased will began to throb, and he made a leap away from the
saloon, and ran heavily towards the white and scarlet lights of the
transparency; at the steps, he fell, and lay groveling; he could
hear the singing overhead:--

        “Ora pro nobis,
    We lift our souls to thee.”

He tried to climb up; but something--call it his muscle, call
it his will, call it his soul; it does not signify--something
refused him, and he did not get beyond the second stair. Slowly,
reluctantly, mysteriously, his feet seemed to be dragged back. He
put out his hands, as if to push at an invisible foe; he leaned
over backwards, planting his great oiled boots firmly in the
ground, as if resisting unseen force; but slowly, reluctantly,
mysteriously, he was pulled back. At the steps of the saloon, in
a blot of darkness, on the shadowed side, he sank; he got to his
hands and knees like an animal, and there he crawled. If any one
had been listening, the man might have been heard to sob,--

“It’s me and the rum--God and the devil--Now we’ll see!”

He rose more feebly this time, and struggled over toward the
prayer-room; he wavered, and turned before he had got there, and
made weakly back. Panting heavily, he crawled up the steps of the
saloon, and then lurched over, and fell down into the blot whence
he had come. There he lay, crying, with the arm of his brown
gingham jumper before his eyes.

“Look up, Job!” said a low voice in the shadow at his side. Job
Slip lifted his sodden face, swollen, red, and stained with tears.
Instinctively he stretched up his hands.

“Oh, sir!” was all he said.

Bayard stood towering above him; he had his grand Saint Michael
look, half of scorn and half of pity.

Job had not seen his face before since the night when it suddenly
rose on a great wave, like that of another drowning man, making
towards him in the undertow off Ragged Rock. Job put up his hands,
now, before his own face. He told Mari, long afterwards, that the
minister blinded him.

“Get up!” said Bayard, much in the tone in which he had said it the
day he knocked Job down.

Job crawled up.

“Come here!” said the preacher sternly. He held out his white
hand; Job put his wet and fishy palm into it; Bayard drew that
through his own arm, and led him away without another word. Old
Trawl came muttering to the door, and stood with his hand over his
eyes, shutting out the glare of the bar-room within, to watch them.
Ben looked over his shoulder, scowling. Father and son muttered
unpleasantly together, as the minister and the drunkard moved off,
and melted into the fine, dark rain.

Bayard led his man down towards the wharves. It was dark, there,
and still; there was a secluded spot, which he knew of, under a
salt-house at the head of a long pier but seldom used at night. The
fine rain was uncertain, and took moods. As the two came down the
larynx of the Alley, the drizzle had dripped off into a soft mist.
Bayard heard Captain Hap across the street giving utterance to his
favorite phrase:--

“It’s comin’ on thick; so thick it has stems to it.”

The captain looked after the minister and the drunkard with
disapproval in his keen, dark eyes.

“Better look out, Mr. Bayard!” he called, with the freedom of
a nurse too recently dismissed not to feel responsible for his
patient. “It ain’t no night for you to be settin’ round on the
docks. You cough, sir! Him you’ve got in tow ain’t worth it--no,
nor twenty like him!”

“That’s a fact,” said Job humbly, stopping short.

“Come on, Job,” Bayard answered decidedly.

So they came under the salt-house, and sat down. Both were silent
at first. Job wiped off an old fish-keg with the sleeve of his
jumper, and offered this piece of furniture to the minister; the
fisherman perched himself on the edge of a big broken pile which
reared its gray head above the wharf; the rising tide flapped
with a sinister sound under his feet which hung over, recklessly
swinging. Job looked down into the black water. He was man enough
still to estimate what he had done, and miserable enough to quench
the shame and fire in him together by a leap. Men do such things,
in crises such as Job had reached, far oftener than we may suppose.
Job said nothing. Bayard watched him closely.

“Well, Job?” he said at last; not sternly, as he had spoken at
Trawl’s door.

“I haven’t touched it before, sir, not a drop till last night,”
said Job with sullen dreariness. “I was countin’ on it how I should
see you the fust time since--I thought of it all the way home from
Georges’. I was so set to see you I couldn’t wait to get ashore to
see you. I took a clean jump from the dory to the landin’. I upsot
the dory and two men.... Mr. Bayard, sir, the cap’n’s right. I
ain’t wuth it. You’d better let me drownded off the Clara Em.”

“Tell me how it happened,” said Bayard gently. Job shook his head.

“You know’s well’s I, sir. We come ashore, and Trawl, he had one of
his ---- runners to the wharf. Ben was there, bossin’ the ---- job.”

The minister listened to this profanity without proffering a
rebuke. His teeth were set; he looked as if he would have liked to
say as much, himself.

“There was a fellar there had made two hundred dollars to his trip.
He treated. So I said I didn’t want any. But I hankered for it
till it seemed I’d die there on the spot before ’em. Ben, he sent
a bar-boy after me come to say I needn’t drink unless I pleased,
but not to be onsocial, and to come along with the crowd. So I
said, No, I was a goin’ home to my wife and kid. When the fellar
was gone, I see he’d slipped a bottle into my coat pocket. It was
a pint bottle XXX. The cork was loose and it leaked. So I put it
back, for I swore I wouldn’t touch it, and I got a little on my
fingers. I put ’em in my mouth to lick ’em off--and, sir, before
God, that’s all I know--till I come to, to-day. The hanker got me,
and that’s all I know. I must ha’ ben at it all night. Seems to me
I went home an’ licked my wife and come away ag’in, but I ain’t
sure. I must ha’ ben on a reg’lar toot. I’m a ---- drunken fool,
and the quicker you let me go to ---- the better.”

Job leaned over and gazed at the water quietly. There was a look
about his jaw which Bayard did not like. He came out from under the
salt-house and moved the keg close beside the broken pile.

“What were you doing when I found you? I’ve been looking for you
everywhere--last night, and all day.”

“I was havin’ it out,” said Job doggedly.

“Having?”--

“It lays between me and the rum, God and the devil. I was set to
see which would beat.”

“Why didn’t you come straight over to see me?”

“I couldn’t.”

“Couldn’t put your feet up those steps and walk in?”

“No, sir. I couldn’t do it. I come over twenty times. I couldn’t
get no further. I had to come back to Trawl’s. I HAD TO DO IT!”

Job brought his clenched hand down heavily on his knee.

“You can’t onderstand, sir,” he said drearily. “You ain’t a
drinkin’ man.”

“I sometimes wish I had been,” said the minister unexpectedly. “I
must understand these things.”

“God forbid!” said Job solemnly. He stretched his shaking arm out
with a beautiful gesture, and put it around Bayard, as if he were
shielding from taint a woman or some pure being from an unknown
world.

Tears sprang to the minister’s eyes. He took the drunkard’s dirty
hand, and clasped it warmly. The two men sat in silence. Job looked
at the water. Bayard looked steadily at Job.

“Come,” he said at length, in his usual tone. “It is beginning to
rain, in earnest. I’m not quite strong yet. I suppose I must not
sit here. Take my arm, and come home to Mari and Joey.”

Job acquiesced hopelessly. He knew that it would happen all over
again. They walked on mutely; their steps fell with a hollow sound
upon the deserted pier; the water sighed as they passed, like the
involuntary witness of irreclaimable tragedy.

Suddenly, Bayard dropped Job’s hand, and spoke in a ringing voice:--

“Job Slip, get down upon your knees--just where you stand!”

Job hesitated.

“Down!” cried Bayard.

Job obeyed, as if he had been a dog.

“Now, lift up your hands--so--to the sky.”

As if the minister had been a cut-throat, Job obeyed again.

“Now pray,” commanded Bayard.

“I don’t know--how to,” stammered Job.

“Pray! Pray!” repeated Bayard.

“I’ve forgot the way you do it, sir!”

“No matter how other people do it! This is your affair. Pray your
own way. Pray anyhow. But pray!”

“I haven’t done such a thing since I was--since I used to say:
‘Eenty Deenty Donty,’--no, that ain’t it, neither. ‘Now I lay
me?’ That’s more like it. But that don’t seem appropriate to the
circumstances, sir.”

“Try again, Job.”

“’Tain’t no use, Mr. Bayard. I’m a goner. If I couldn’t keep sober
for you, I ain’t ergointer for no Creetur I never see nor spoke
to,--nor no man ever see nor spoke to,--a thousand fathoms up
overhead.”

Job lifted his trembling arms high and higher towards the dark sky.

“Pray!” reiterated Bayard.

“I can’t do it, sir!”

“Pray!” commanded Bayard.

“Oh,--God!” gasped Job.

Bayard took off his hat. Job’s arms fell; his face dropped into
them; he shook from head to foot.

“There!” he cried, “I done it.... I’ll do it again. God! God!
God!”

Bayard bowed his head. Moments passed before he said, solemnly,--

“Job Slip, I saved your life, didn’t I?”

“You committed that mistake, sir.”

“It belongs to me, then. You belong to me. I take you. I give you
to God.”

He dropped upon his knees beside the drunkard in the rain.

“Lord,” he said, in a tone of infinite sweetness, “here is a poor
perishing man. Save him! He has given himself to Thee.”

“The parson did that, Lord,” sobbed Job. “Don’t give me no credit
for it!”

“Save him!” continued Bayard, who seemed hardly to have heard the
drunkard’s interruption. “Save me this one man! I have tried, and
failed, and I am discouraged to the bottom of my heart. But I
cannot give him up. I will never give him up till he is dead, or I
am. If I cannot do any other thing in Windover, for Christ’s sake,
save me this one drunken man!”

Bayard lifted his face in a noble agony. Job hid his own before
that Gethsemane.

“Does the parson care so much--as that?” thought the fisherman.

The rain dashed on Bayard’s white face. He rose from his knees.

“Job Slip,” he said, “you have signed a contract which you can
never break. Your vow lies between God and you. I am the witness.
I have bound you over to a clean life. Go and sin no more.--I’ll
risk you now,” added Bayard, quietly. “I shall not even walk home
with you. You have fifteen rum-shops to meet before you get back
to your wife and child. Pass them! They all stand with open doors,
and the men you know are around these doors. You will not enter one
of them. You will go straight home; and to-morrow you will send me
written testimony from Mari, your wife,--I want her to write it,
Job,--that you did as I bade you, and came home sober. Now go, and
God go with you.”

As Bayard turned to give the drunkard his hand, he stumbled a
little over something on the dark pier. Job had not risen from his
knees, but stooped, and put his lips to the minister’s patched shoe.

       

  “This is to sertify that my Husband come home last nite sober and
  haint ben on a Bat sence, god bless you ennyhow.
                                                       MARIA SLIP.”

This legend, written in a laborious chirography on a leaf torn
from a grocer’s pass-book, was put into Bayard’s hand at noon of
the next day. Joey brought it; he had counted upon a nap on the
study lounge, and was rather disappointed to find it occupied. Mrs.
Granite said she had sent for Cap’n Hap; she said the minister’s
temperature had gone up to a hundred and twenty, and she should
think it would.




XIII.


Jane Granite came out of the kitchen door, and sat down in
the back yard underneath the clothes-lines. She sat on the
overturned salt-fish box that she kept to stand on and reach the
clothes-pins,--Jane was such a little body. She looked smaller than
usual that Monday afternoon, and shrunken, somehow; her eyes were
red, as if she had been crying. She cried a good deal on Mondays,
after Ben Trawl had come and gone on Sunday evenings.

The minister was quite himself again, and about his business. This
fact should have given Jane the keenest gratification; whereas,
in proportion as their lodger had grown well and cheerful, Jane
had turned pale and sober. When he was really ill, her plain face
wore a rapt look. For Captain Hap had remained on duty only a day
or two; Mr. Bayard had not been sick enough to need professional
nursing, this time, and it had since devolved wholly upon the women
of the household to minister to his convalescent needs.

Happy Jane! She ran up and down, she flitted to and fro, she
cooked, she ironed, she mended, she sewed, she read aloud, she ran
errands, she watched for the faintest flicker in the changes of
expression on his face: its dignity, its beauty, and its dearness
for that one precious page out of her poor story were hers. All the
rest of her life he belonged to other people and to other things:
to the drunkards and the fishermen and the services; to his books
and his lonely walks and his unapproachable thoughts; to his dreams
of the future in which Jane had no more part than the paper Cupid
on the screen, forever tasting and never eating impossible fruit;
to his memories of a past of which Jane knew that she knew no more
than she did of the etiquette at the palace of Kubla Khan in Xanadu.

Jane understood about Kubla Khan (or she thought she did, which
answers the same purpose), for she had read the poem aloud to him
one day while her mother sat sewing in the wooden rocking-chair.
Jane was “educated,” like most respectable Windover girls; she
had been through the high school of her native town; she read not
at all badly; Mr. Bayard had told her something to this effect,
and Jane sang about the house all the rest of the day. Yes; Jane
understood Kubla Khan.

Jane watched the luminous patience in the sick man’s eyes,

    “Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
     Through caverns measureless to man.”

She repeated the lines mechanically, with the bitter consciousness
of the half-educated of being moved by something which it was
beyond her power and her province to reconcile with the facts of
her life. She sighed when the brilliant eagerness and restlessness
of returning health replaced that large and gentle light. Bayard
had asked her mother to let Jane keep his copy of that volume; he
said he had two sets of Coleridge. He had written her name in it;
how could he guess that Jane would lock the book away in her bureau
drawer by day, and sleep with it under her pillow at night? He
tossed her a rose of common human gratitude; it fell into a girl’s
heart,--a burning coal of ravenous longing,--and ate its way.

It was summer in Windover; and Jane’s one beautiful leaf of life
had turned. Mr. Bayard had long since been able to take care of
himself; coughing still, and delicate enough, but throwing off
impatiently, as the gentlest man does, in health, the little
feminine restraints and devotions which he found necessary and even
agreeable in illness. It would not be too much to say that Jane
loved him as unselfishly as any woman ever had, or ever would;
but in proportion as his spirits rose, hers sank. She reproached
herself, poor child, that it did not make her perfectly happy to
have the minister get well. Suffering and helpless, he had needed
her. Busy and well, he thought of her no more. For that one time,
that cruelly little time, she, Jane Granite, of all the women in
the world, had known that precious right. To her, only to her, it
had been given to serve his daily, common wants; she had carried
up his tray, she had read or written tireless hours as his mood
decreed, or she had sat in silent study of his musing face, not one
lineament of which did muse of her.

But it was summer in Windover, and the minister was Jane’s no more.

It was one of the last of the days of a celestial June. Bayard had
lived the month of blossoms out eagerly and restlessly. His work
had grown enormously upon his hands, and required an attention
which told on every nerve. He had gone headlong into the depths of
one of those dedications which do not give a man time to come up
for air. His eye wore an elate, rapt look. His cheeks burned with a
fine fever. His personal beauty that summer was something at which
the very “dock-rats” on the wharves turned back to look. No woman
easily forgot it, and how many secretly dreamed of it, fortunately
the young man never knew. The best of men may work his share of
heart-break, and the better he is the less he will suspect it.

Bayard was far too busy to think of women. For he did not exactly
think of Helen Carruth; he felt her. She did not occupy his mind so
far that he experienced the need of communication with her; he had
never written her so much as a note of ceremony. After her brief
scintillation before him on Windover Point that April afternoon,
she had melted from his horizon. Nevertheless, she had changed the
tint of it. Now and then in the stress of his prosaic, thankless,
yet singularly enthusiastic work, there came to the young preacher
that sense of something agreeable about to happen, which makes
one wake up singing in the morning of one’s hardest day’s labor,
or sends one to rest dreaming quietly in the face of the crudest
anxiety. The devotee, in the midst of his orisons, was aware of the
footstep of possible pleasure falling lightly, distant, doubtful,
towards his cell. Some good men pray the louder for this sweet and
perilous prescience. Bayard worked the harder.

And it was summer in Windover. The scanty green carpet of the
downs had unrolled to its full, making as much as possible of its
meagre proportions, atoning in depth of color for what it lacked
in breadth and length: if the cliffs and boulders were grayer for
the green, the grass looked greener for the gray. The saxifrage
had faded, but among the red-cupped moss the checkerberry shot up
tender, reddish leaves, the white violets scented the swamps, and
the famous wild roses of the Cape dashed the bayberry thickets with
pink. The late apple blossoms had blushed and gone, but the leaf
and the hidden fruit responded to the anxious attention of the
unenthusiastic farmer who wrenched his living out of the reluctant
granite soil. In front of the hotels the inevitable geraniums
blazed scarlet in mathematical flower-beds; and the boarding-houses
convalesced from housecleaning in striped white scrim curtains and
freshly painted blue wooden pumps. The lemonade and candy stores
of “the season” sprouted with the white clovers by the wayside;
and the express cart of the summer boarder’s luggage blossomed with
the lonely and uncomfortable hydrangea, bearing its lot in yellow
jars on piazza steps. Windover Point wore a coquettish air of
expectation, like a girl in her best dress who waits in a lane for
an invisible admirer.

Windover Harbor was alive and alert. The summer fleets were out;
the spring fleets were in. Bayard could hear the drop of anchors
now, in the night, through his open windows; and the soft, pleasant
splash, the home-coming and home-yearning sound which wakened the
summer people, only to lull them to sleep again with a sense of
poetic pleasure in a picturesque and alien life, gave to the lonely
preacher of the winter Windover the little start of anxiety and
responsibility which assassinates rest. He thought:--

“Another crew in! Is it Job? Or Bob? Or Jean? Will they go to
Trawl’s, or get home straight? I must be off at dawn to see to
this.”

On the little beach opposite Mrs. Granite’s cottage the sea sighed
in the night to answer him; ebbing, it lapped the pebbles gently,
as if it felt sorry for the preacher, who had not known Windover
as long as it had; it inhaled and exhaled long, soft breaths, in
rhythm with which his own began to grow deep and quiet; and the
start from a dream of drowning in the undertow off Ragged Rock
would tell him that he had slept. More often, of late, the rising
tide had replied nervously; it was fitful and noisy; it panted and
seemed to struggle for articulation: for the June sea was restless,
and the spring gales had died hard. The tints of the harbor were
still a little cool, but the woodland on the opposite shore held
out an arm of rich, ripe leaf; and the careening sails warmed to
the sunrise and the sunset in rose and ochre, violet and pearl,
opening buds of the blossom of midsummer color that was close at
hand.

Bayard was in his rooms, resting after one of these unresting
nights. He had set forth at daybreak to meet an incoming schooner
at the docks. It had become his habit, whenever he could, to see
that the fishermen were personally conducted past the dens of Angel
Alley, and taken home sober to waking wife and sleeping child. In
this laborious task Job Slip’s help had been of incredible value.
Job was quite sober now; and in the intervals between trips this
converted Saul delighted to play the Paul to Bayard’s little group
of apostles. Yet Job did not pose. He was more sincere than most
better men. He took to decency as if it had been a new trade; and
the novel dignity of missionary zeal sat upon him like a liberal
education. The Windover word for what had happened to Job was
“re-formation.” Job Slip, one says, is a reformed man. The best
way to save a rascal is to give him another one to save; and Job,
who was no rascal, but the ruin of a very good fellow, brilliantly
illustrated this eternal law.

Bayard had come back, unusually tired, about noon, and had not left
the house since his return. He was reading, with his back to the
light, and the sea in his ears. The portière of mosquito netting,
which hung now at the door between his two rooms, was pushed aside
that he might see the photographed Leonardo as he liked to do. The
scanty furniture of his sleeping-room had been moved about during
his recent illness, so that now the picture was the only object
visible from the study where he sat. The mosquito portière was
white. Mrs. Granite having ineffectually urged a solferino pink,
Bayard regarded this portière with the disproportionate gratitude
of escape from evil.

A knock had struck the cottage door, and Jane Granite had run
to answer it. She was in her tidy, blue gingham dress, but a
little wet and crumply, as was to be expected on a Monday. She
had snatched up a white apron, and looked like an excellent
parlor-maid. For such, perhaps, the caller took her, for practical
tact was not his most obtrusive quality. He was an elderly man, a
gentleman; his mouth was stern, and his eyes were kind. He carried
a valuable cane, and spoke with a certain air of authority, as of a
man well acquainted with this world and the other too. He asked for
Mr. Bayard, and would send up his card before intruding upon him; a
ceremony which quite upset little Jane, and she stood crimson with
embarrassment. Her discomfort was not decreased by the bewildering
presence of a carriage at the gate of her mother’s garden. Beyond
the rows of larkspur and feverfew, planted for the vase on Mr.
Bayard’s study-table, Mr. Salt’s best carryall, splendid in spring
varnish, loomed importantly. Pepper, with the misanthropy of a
confirmed dyspeptic, drew the carryall, and ladies sat within
it. There were two. They were covered by certain strange, rich
carriage robes undreamed of by Mr. Salt; dull, silk blankets, not
of Windover designs. The ladies were both handsomely dressed. One
was old; but one--ah! one was young.

“Mr. Bayard is in, my dear.” The voice of the caller rose over the
larkspur to the carryall. “Will you wait, or drive on?”

“We’ll drive on,” replied the younger lady rather hurriedly.

“Helen, Helen!” complained the elder. “Don’t you know that Pepper
is afraid of the electric cars? I’ve noticed horses are that live
in the same town with them.”

Helen did not laugh at this, but her eyes twinkled irreverently.
She wrapped herself in her old-gold silk blanket, and turned to
watch the sea. She did not look at Mrs. Granite’s cottage.

The dignified accents of the Professor’s voice were now wafted over
the larkspur bed again.

“Mr. Bayard asks if the ladies will not come up to his study,
Statira? It is only one short flight. Will you do so?”

Simultaneously Bayard’s eager face flashed out of the doorway;
and before Helen could assent or dissent, her mother, on the
young man’s arm, was panting up between the feverfew and into the
