astonish the reader. However that may be, the termination points to an
enlarged field of operations in the future for the party as they visit
the vast empires where blow the Asiatic breezes.
"Only one great mistake has been made, Louis Belgrave," said Captain
George Scott Fencelowe.
He was a young man of eighteen; but the title by which he was addressed
was genuine so far as his position was actually concerned, though it
would hardly have passed muster before a court of admiralty of the
United States, whose flag was displayed on the ensign-staff at the
stern. The vessel was a small steam-yacht, only forty feet in length,
but furnished in a miniature way with most of the appliances of a
regular steamer.
She had a cabin twelve feet long, whose broad divans could be changed
into berths for the four principal personages on board of her. Abaft
this apartment was a standing-room with seating accommodations for eight
persons, or twelve with a little crowding, with luxurious cushions and
an awning overhead when needed.
Her pilot-house, engine-room, galley, and forecastle were as regular as
though she had been an ocean steamer of a thousand tons. Her ordinary
speed was ten knots an hour; but she could be driven up to twelve on an
emergency, and had even made a trifle more than this when an
extraordinary effort was required of the craft.
She had been built for a Moorish Pacha of the highest rank and of
unbounded wealth, who had ordered that no expense should be spared in
her construction and outfit. She was built of steel as strong as it was
possible to build a vessel of any kind; and in more than one heavy gale
on the Mediterranean she had proved herself to be an unusually able and
weatherly craft.
Though she had formerly been called the Salihé, her name had been
changed by her later American owners to the Maud. Everything about her
was as luxurious as it was substantial. She had a ship's company of
seven persons, only two of whom had reached and passed their majority,
the other five varying in age from fifteen to eighteen.
The principal personages were boys, three of them having attained the
mature age of eighteen, while the fourth was only fifteen. This quartet
sometimes called themselves the "Big Four," though it was a borrowed
designation, meaning something entirely different from its present
signification. Captain Scott had been the first to apply the term; and
he had done so simply because it tickled the tympanum of his ear, and it
really meant nothing at all.
The Maud was the consort, or more properly the tender, of the
Guardian-Mother, a steam-yacht of over six hundred tons' burden, now
engaged in making a voyage around the world. In a preceding volume it
was related in what manner Louis Belgrave became a millionaire, with
fifty per cent more than money enough to entitle him to this rather
indefinite appellation. How he happened to be the proprietor of one of
the finest steam-yachts that ever floated on the ocean was also
explained, through a somewhat complicated narrative, and the details of
a cruise to Bermuda, the Bahama Islands, and Cuba, followed by a voyage
across the Atlantic and up the Mediterranean, the steamer and her tender
having just sailed from Alexandria after the tour of Egypt.
The ship, as the larger steamer was generally called to distinguish her
from the smaller one, was the Guardian-Mother. This may be regarded as
rather an odd name for a steamship, but it had been selected by the
young millionaire himself as a tribute of love, affection, and honor to
his mother; for they were devotedly attached to each other, and their
relations were almost sentimental. Mrs. Belgrave was one of the most
important passengers in the cabin of the steamer.
Felix McGavonty was born in the United States, though his parents came
from Ireland. He had been the companion of Louis Belgrave from their
earliest childhood; and as they grew older they became the most
consummate cronies. Felix almost worshipped his friend, and the
friendship was mutual. He was a fair scholar, having attended the
academy at Von Blonk Park, where they lived. He could speak the English
language as well as a college professor; but he was very much given to
speaking with the Irish brogue, in honor of his mother he insisted, and
dragged into his speech all the dialects known in the Green Isle, and
perhaps supplemented them with some inventions of his own. That great
American humorist might have said of Felix just what he did of the
kangaroo.
Captain Scott had been a wild boy, in fact, a decidedly bad boy. He had
been picked up with his foster-father in the Bahamas. His only guardian
bound him over to Captain Royal Ringgold, the commander of the
Guardian-Mother, who had thoroughly and entirely reformed his life and
character. He was a natural-born sailor, and his abilities were of a
high order in that direction. When the ship's company of the Maud was
organized, Louis had brought his influence to bear in favor of electing
him to the command, for which he was vastly better qualified than any
other member of the "Big Four."
Squire Moses Scarburn, another of the all-over-the-world excursionists,
was the trustee of Louis's million and a half. He was a jolly fat man,
rising fifty years old. He was a lawyer by profession, and had sat upon
the bench, and Louis had always been an immense favorite with him. He
had taken Felix into his house as an orphan; and his housekeeper, Mrs.
Sarah Blossom, had cared for him in his childhood, looked after his
morals and the buttons on his shirts and trousers, till she became very
fond of him.
Just before the Guardian-Mother sailed on her cruise from New York, a
couple of professional gentlemen, thrown overboard by the upsetting of a
sailing-yacht, were rescued from a watery grave by the people on board
of the steamer, largely by the exertions of Louis. One of them was Dr.
Philip Hawkes, one of the most noted medical men of the great city. He
was almost the counterpart of the trustee physically, weighing two
hundred and twenty-six pounds and three-quarters, while the lawyer fell
a quarter of a pound short of these figures. They were continually
bantering each other about this difference.
The doctor called Uncle Moses, as the entire party addressed him,
"Brother Avoirdupois;" and the lawyer retorted by christening the
surgeon "Brother Adipose Tissue." The conductor of the party in Egypt
had called them both "cupids;" and this term became very popular for the
time. The other gentleman who had been saved from an untimely grave in
the bay was a learned Frenchman. Both of them were in feeble health from
overwork; and they accepted invitations to join the party, the one as
the medical officer of the ship, and the other as the instructor in the
languages as well as in the sciences generally, for which he was
abundantly competent.
Louis Belgrave, in passing through the incidents of the story, had made
the acquaintance of Mr. Lowell Woolridge, a Fifth Avenue millionaire and
magnate. He had formerly been a well-known sportsman; but he had
abandoned the race-course, though he kept up his interest in yachting.
He was the owner of a large sailing schooner; and through this craft
Louis and his mother became acquainted with the yachtsman's family,
consisting of his wife, a son, and a daughter. The latter was a very
beautiful young lady of sixteen, whose face captivated everybody who
came into her presence; and Louis's mother had deemed it her duty to
warn her son against the fascination of the maiden before he had found
his million.
A slight illness had threatened the young lady with possible
consequences, and the physicians had advised her father to take her to
Orotava, in the Canary Islands. On the voyage the yacht had been nearly
wrecked, and the family had been rescued by the officers and crew of the
Guardian-Mother. The yacht sailed in company with the steamer; and they
visited Mogadore, in Morocco. Here Ali-Noury Pacha, one of the richest
and most influential magnates of the country, paid a visit to the ship.
Unfortunately he saw the beautiful Blanche Woolridge, and was more
attentive to her than pleased her parents.
They were alarmed, for of course the Pacha was a Mohammedan. Captain
Ringgold found a way out of the difficulty by towing the sailing-yacht
out of the harbor; and both vessels hastened to Madeira. The Moor
followed them in his steam-yacht, the Fatimé; but the commander put to
sea as soon as he realized the situation. At Gibraltar the Pacha
confronted the party again. The commander had learned at Funchal that
His Highness was a villanously bad character, and he positively refused
to permit him to visit or to meet the lady passengers on board his ship.
He was an honest, upright, and plain-spoken man. He stated that the
Pacha was not a suitable person to associate with Christian ladies.
This led to a personal attack upon the stalwart commander, and the Pacha
was knocked into the mud in the street. This had fanned his wrath to a
roaring name, for he had been fined before an English court for the
assault. His passion for revenge was even more determined than his
admiration for the "houri," as he called the maiden. He had followed the
ship to Constantinople, engaged a felucca and a ruffian, assisted by a
French detective, to capture the fair girl, as the story has already
informed the reader in other volumes.
The national affairs of His Highness had called him home, but he had
apparently placed his steam-yacht in command of a Captain Mazagan; and
this ruffian, attended by Ulbach, the detective, had followed the party
to Egypt. The capture of Louis Belgrave, or the young lady, or both of
them, was the object of the ruffian, who was to receive two hundred
thousand francs if he succeeded, or half that sum if he failed. Louis
had had a narrow escape from these ruffians in Cairo; but he had worked
his way out of the difficulty, assisted by a chance incident.
The Fatimé had been discovered in the harbor of Alexandria before the
Guardian-Mother and her tender sailed. The peril which menaced the young
lady had been kept a profound secret from all except three of the "Big
Four;" for the commander believed himself abundantly able to protect his
passengers, and the knowledge of the danger would have made the ladies
so nervous and terrified that Mrs. Belgrave and the Woolridges would
have insisted upon returning to New York, and abandoning the voyage from
which so much of pleasure and instruction was expected.
Captain Ringgold and Louis had considered the situation, and fully
realized the intention of Captain Mazagan to follow the steamer and her
little consort. They had agreed upon a plan, after Captain Scott and
Felix, who was the detective of the ship, by which they hoped to "fool"
the enemy, as the young commander expressed it. The Fatimé had sailed
early in the morning, but she was soon discovered off the Bay of Abukir.
The reader is now in condition to inquire into what Captain Scott
regarded as the one great mistake that had been made in the arrangements
for outwitting the Moorish steam-yacht.
The young captain was in the pilot-house of the Maud when the steamer
was discovered. He was the commander; but the smallness of the ship's
company made it necessary for him to keep his own watch, which is
usually done by the second mate for him. Morris Woolridge, who had had
considerable experience in his father's yacht, was the first officer,
and there was no other. The young millionaire, in spite of his influence
as owner, had insisted on serving as a common sailor, or deck-hand, with
Felix. There were two engineers and a cook, who will be presented when
they are needed.
"What is the one great mistake, Captain Scott?" asked Louis, who stood
at the open window in front of the pilot-house.
"The single mistake of any consequence is in the fact that you are on
board of the Maud when you ought to be stowed away in the cabin of the
Guardian-Mother," replied the captain very decidedly, with something
bordering on disgust in his tones and manner. "Instead of keeping you
out of danger, you are running just as straight into the lion's den as
you can go, Louis."
"Where is the lion's den, please to inform me," replied the young
millionaire, scouting, in his tones and manner, any idea of peril to
himself which was not shared by his companions.
"On board of that four-hundred-ton steamer which you see off by the
coast."
"Do you think I ought to be any more afraid of her than the rest of the
fellows?" demanded Louis. "Do you wish me to stand back and stay behind
a fence while you face the enemy?"
"Of course I don't believe you are afraid, Louis, my dear fellow,"
added Captain Scott, perhaps fearing he had said too much, or had been
misunderstood.
But just at that moment Morris Woolridge came forward, and neither of
them was willing to continue the conversation in his presence; for he
might fall into the possession of the secret which was so carefully
guarded.
CHAPTER II
HARMONY DISTURBED, BUT HAPPILY RESTORED
Morris Woolridge was the first officer of the Maud, and as such he had
charge of the port watch. The captain had been two hours at the wheel,
and it was Morris's turn to take his trick; and the change was made. At
the same time Felix McGavonty relieved Louis. Although the helmsman was
always in position to see out ahead of the steamer, the other member of
the watch was required to serve as lookout on the forecastle.
Except in heavy weather, when all hands were required to be on duty, the
watch not employed had nothing to do, and the members of it could use
the time as they pleased. Sometimes they had lost sleep to make up; but
most of the leisure hours during the day were given to study, for the
commander had stimulated the ambition of the boys so that they were
anxious to be prepared to speak on all subjects that were considered at
the conferences, or lectures, on board the Guardian-Mother.
Regular subjects for special study were given out, always with reference
to the topics of the country that was next to be visited, or was to be
seen from the deck of the vessels. After the business of outwitting the
enemy on board of the Fatimé, which was an episode in the voyage forced
upon the commander and his confidants, the steamers would pass through
the Suez Canal, and proceed by the Red Sea to the Indian Ocean.
A written list of about a dozen subjects had been given out to the
students on the wing, as Dr. Hawkes called the class of five who
profited systematically by the instructions of Professor Giroud, though
all on both steamers were more or less engaged in study. The first of
these were the Land of Goshen and Mount Sinai. As the little squadron
was to pass near the territory of the ancient kingdoms of Assyria,
Babylon, and Syria, and the more modern realm of Mohammed and the
Caliphate of Bagdad, these subjects were to follow later. At any rate,
the peripatetic students had enough to prevent their active minds from
becoming rusty.
It was not for two hours that Captain Scott and Louis Belgrave found
another opportunity to consider the alleged mistake, as the former
regarded it; for the latter belonged to the port watch, and served with
Morris. But when the Maud had made twenty miles more, they were together
again, with Felix on the lookout; for he was one of the triumvirate on
board in charge of the secret.
Louis took a seat in the pilot-house on one side of the wheel, while
Scott was on the other. The Guardian-Mother was not a mile ahead of the
Maud. The young captain had already studied up the chart, and the
details of the manoeuvre contemplated had been already arranged, so
far as it was possible to do so.
"The ship does not seem to be letting herself out yet according to the
programme," said Captain Scott, when Louis took his place near him, and
Felix was using his glass, which had become his constant companion in
observing the movements of the Moorish steamer.
"Captain Ringgold knows what he is about," suggested the other.
"Of course he does; but I supposed he would give his cue by this time,
and begin the business of overhauling the pirate," added Scott. "Felix,
is the ship stirring up her screw?"
"I think she is, Captain," replied the lookoutman; "but she does not
give the signal yet."
"Keep your ears wide open tight, Flix, for it will come soon. Where is
the pirate now?"
"She is directly in range with the Guardian-Mother."
If the Fatimé had not herself been engaged in piratical proceedings, her
owner was responsible for the employment of her present commander on
board the felucca Samothraki, in the Archipelago, in an attempt to take
Louis and Miss Blanche, or both of them, out of the Maud; and he might
have succeeded if Captain Ringgold had not decided to make use of the
two twelve-pounders on the top-gallant forecastle of the Guardian-Mother
at the critical moment.
The commander regarded Captain Mazagan as really a pirate; and he would
have proceeded against him as such, if it had not been that doing so
would have broken up his own voyage. With this excellent authority Scott
never called the Moorish steam-yacht anything but a pirate, unless it
was to save too frequent repetition of the ugly word. If Captain
Ringgold had been less politic and prudent, his action would have suited
his junior commander better.
"You don't think I am afraid, though one great mistake has been made in
permitting me to be on board of the Maud at the present time?" said
Louis, while they were waiting for the signal from the ship.
"With no reflection or disparagement upon you of any kind, Louis, I said
just what I thought, and spoke just what I felt," replied the captain.
"But I don't understand your position at all, Captain Scott. I do not
see that I am in any greater peril than the rest of the ship's company,"
added Louis with a very cheerful smile upon his good-looking face.
"I don't forget that you are the sole owner of the Guardian-Mother, and
half-owner of the Maud, with a million and a half of dollars in your
trousers pocket. Though we are all earning our living in your service,
as well as improving our education, I for one do not lose sight of the
fact that we are all dependent upon your bounty for the means of
carrying on this voyage."
"What has all this to do with what we were talking about, Captain
Scott?" asked Louis, very much inclined to laugh out loud at the
rehearsal of the situation.
"It has this to do with it: I am very much afraid of saying something,
or doing something, that will offend you," answered the captain, with
more than usual deference in his tone and manner. "We came very near
getting into a quarrel in Pournea Bay; and if I had forgotten for a
moment what you are and what I am, we might have fallen into a jolly
row."
"I acted then as mildly as I could, however, in a matter which you did
not understand then, but do now; and I apologized for my interference as
soon as I had the opportunity," replied Louis quite seriously. "I cannot
understand why you have found it necessary to remind me that I am a
millionaire on a small scale, as fortunes are measured in our country,
and that I am the owner of the Guardian-Mother. You make it appear as
though I regarded you as my inferior. Have I ever put on airs in my
relations with you, Captain Scott?"
"Never!" replied the captain promptly, and with decided emphasis.
"Have I ever interfered with you in your command, except in the instance
referred to?"
"Never!"
"Have I ever done anything to stultify, degrade you, or impair your
self-respect?"
"Never!"
"Could I have done any different, or been any different, if the
bill-of-sale of the Guardian-Mother had been among your effects, and the
million had been in your trousers pocket instead of mine?" demanded
Louis with some earnestness; for the words of his friend--and they had
been very strong friends--had produced an unpleasant impression upon his
mind.
"You could not, Louis! I have made a donkey of myself; you are the best
friend I ever had in this world," returned the captain with emphasis.
"But let me say that you have taken me on the wrong tack. I had not the
remotest intention of casting the shadow of a reflection upon your
demeanor towards me. You have entirely mistaken my meaning."
"Then I think you had better explain yourself."
"Since that little affair in Pournea Bay, I have been mortally afraid I
should say or do something to offend you, or hurt your feelings,"
continued Scott. "We are going on what may prove to be a delicate
business."
"I don't see how there can be anything delicate about it," added Louis.
"Perhaps that was not the right word for it. But I want to have it
understood, first and foremost, that I did not remind you of the
difference in our situations because I felt that I had any cause of
complaint," said the captain, so earnestly that he was almost eloquent.
"Without reminding you again that you are a millionaire while I am a
beggar, you are the most modest fellow on board, and have always been
without any let-up. By your action I am in command of the Maud. On your
petition I was admitted to the cabin of the Guardian-Mother, where I
have a stateroom at this moment, and a place at the table when on board
of her, on an entire equality with everybody there."
"Why do you mention these matters, Captain Scott?"
"Only to show that I am not ungrateful for the many favors extended to
me," answered the young man heartily. "More than all this, I was a bad
egg when I came on board of the steamer. It was your influence and your
example, Louis Belgrave, more than even the treatment of Captain
Ringgold, which caused me to turn over a new leaf, and try to make a man
of myself."
Scott turned away his head, and looked out at the starboard window, and
Louis saw a gush of tears fall on the rim of the wheel as he did so. He
had been about all that is bad which a young man could be when he was
committed to the care of the commander by his foster-father; but since
he had been "born again," as he expressed it, he had been thoroughly
faithful and exemplary, and morally he stood as high as the other
members of the "Big Four." His reformation had made a new being of him,
and when he reverted to it, his feelings overcame him.
"I have said too much, my dear fellow, and I am very sorry that I have
hurt your feelings," interposed Louis, after he waited a few minutes
for his emotion to subside. "Only don't remind me that I am a bigger
fellow than the rest of you, and we shall never quarrel."
"You have never spoken an unkind word to me since I was born over again,
and it was mean in me to say anything which would cut you to the quick.
I did not know what I was saying, and I hope you will forgive me."
"With all my heart; for I realize now that you did not mean what I
supposed you did, and you must forgive me for picking you up so
suddenly," added Louis. "Now we will not say another word about the
matter. We can't get up a quarrel if we try, and you cannot do or say
anything now that will make me think less of you. There is my hand, my
dear fellow."
Louis extended his hand across the wheel, and it was warmly pressed by
the captain. It is possible that Scott had some ideas in his mind in
connection with the present mission of the Maud that would more clearly
have explained why he had uttered words which seemed to be a reproach on
him whom he regarded as his best friend. He was a young man of eighteen,
and had some of the weaknesses that belong to immaturity of age. Though
he did not say so, he thought Captain Ringgold was what he considered as
"rather slow" in his treatment of the pirate. It would not have been
unlike many very good boys if he had believed he could manage the matter
better.
"Now, Captain, let us come back to the question that was before us, the
mistake that was made when I was permitted to remain on board the Maud
as she came out on her present mission," said Louis, after harmony had
been entirely restored.
"In order to understand why I entertain this opinion, let us overhaul my
instructions from the commander," replied the captain.
"That will be the best way to get at the subject."
"In the first place, we are to engage in an attempt to shake off the
pirate; for she is not only a nuisance, but a constant menace to certain
members of the party," added Scott.
"All that has been admitted by the commander; though, as I happen to be
one of the individuals, I may say I have not the slightest fear of
anything the pirate can do."
"You have been through quite a number of perilous adventures, Louis, and
you have got used to such."
"I don't throw myself into such adventures, but I can't deny that they
have afforded me not a little of exhilarating excitement," replied the
young millionaire. "It was you who proposed the plan to the commander
which was adopted, and we are now to carry out."
"And I hope no weakness in either the ship or the Maud will cause it to
be a failure. At the signal from the Guardian-Mother the Maud is to run
for the island of Cyprus, distance a trifle less than two hundred knots,
while the ship is to continue on her course. Then it will remain to be
proved what the pirate will do. I think she will follow the Maud, though
Captain Ringgold is in doubt about it; and of course I don't feel
sure."
"Our machinery was overhauled by the chief engineer of the ship while we
were in Egypt, and it is yet to be shown what speed she can make."
"But the pirate is not good for more than thirteen knots at the most,
for we have tried it on with her. In my judgment Captain Mazagan will
board us if he can, and take one of our number out of the Maud; and that
is the reason why I think it was a mistake that you remained with us."
Louis could not yet see the mistake, and did not believe it was
necessary that the Maud should be boarded; for that would be an act of
downright piracy.
CHAPTER III
A MOMENTOUS SECRET REVEALED
"Three whistles from the Guardian-Mother," said Felix, the lookoutman,
walking up to the forward windows of the pilot-house, and speaking with
a low voice.
"Three whistles, and I heard them, Flix," returned Captain Scott, as he
put the helm to starboard. "Where is Morris?"
"I think he is in the cabin studying Assyria and Babylon," replied Felix
with a mild laugh, as he thought this was an odd occupation for the
first officer of the Maud; for he was little inclined to be a student
himself, though he was an attentive listener at the lectures.
Felix returned to his place in the bow, and directed the spy-glass,
which he carried with him most of the time, whether on duty or not, in
the direction of the Fatimé. He had a taste for the business of a
detective in the higher walks of that profession, and the commander had
recognized his ability. He had been employed to ascertain whether the
pirate was in the waters of Egypt, having been the first to suspect her
presence; and he had proved the fact beyond a doubt.
Accompanied by John Donald, the second engineer of the Maud, who spoke
Arabic, he had followed Mazagan to Rosetta, where he found the Fatimé,
having evidently made a port there to escape the observation of the
commander of the Guardian-Mother and his people. The villain and his
assistant had failed to lead Captain Ringgold into the traps set for
him.
Having failed in their attempts to accomplish anything at Alexandria,
the conspirators had followed the party to Cairo. Louis and Felix were
sitting on a bench in the Ezbekiyeh, a park in front of their hotel,
when Mazagan and the Frenchman approached them, and wished to make a
compromise, which the Moor desired the young millionaire to recommend to
the commander. The agent of the Pacha informed the young man that he was
to receive a reward of forty thousand dollars for the capture and
conveyance to Mogadore of either Louis or Miss Blanche, or both of them,
or one-half that sum if he failed; and he proposed to compromise.
The use of the steam-yacht was given to him to accomplish this purpose.
Mazagan was, or pretended to be, discouraged by the several failures he
had made in effecting his object, and he proposed that the commander
should pay him twenty thousand dollars, and then he would collect the
other half of the promised stipend of the Pacha, as the promised reward
in case of failure.
The pirate proved that he was a very mean and treacherous pirate, as
willing to sell out his friend as his foe, and Louis was more disgusted
than ever with him. He spoke his mind freely to the villain, and
absolutely refused to recommend the treachery to the commander. He would
as soon have compromised with the Evil One for the sale of his
principles. The approach of Captain Ringgold terminated the interview,
and the rascals made haste to retreat. After this they made an attempt
to capture Louis, and the detective had been shot in the shoulder.
What the conspirators intended or expected to accomplish since these
failures of course none of those interested could know, and it only
remained for them to watch the movements of the Fatimé, and to be
constantly on their guard against any possible attempt on the part of
the reprobates to carry out their purpose. Only the commander of the
Guardian-Mother and the three members of the "Big Four" could take these
precautions, for no others knew anything at all about the necessity for
them.
Felix used his glass very diligently. The Guardian-Mother did not change
her course, and the Moorish steamer, which was now hardly a mile from
her, was still headed to the eastward. Whether the latter would dodge
into the port of Rosetta or Damietta, or give chase to the Maud, was yet
to be demonstrated; and the lookoutman was watching for a movement of
this kind.
"The ship is stirring up a good deal of salt water under her stern,"
said Felix, walking over to the pilot-house. "You can see by the power
of smoke she is sending out at her funnel that the chief engineer is
driving her."
"I can see that she has increased her distance from us; but according to
the commander's orders I have directed Felipe to run her not more than
eight or nine knots," replied the captain of the Maud. "How far ahead of
the Guardian-Mother is the pirate, Felix?"
"Not more than a mile, as nearly as I can make it out," replied Felix.
"But she is making the fur fly, and if the pirate don't want her to come
alongside of her, or get a position where her people can overlook her
deck, she will change her course within the next ten minutes;" and the
lookoutman returned to his place in the bow.
"It is lucky for that pirate that your humble servant is not in command
of the Guardian-Mother," said Captain Scott.
"Do you think yourself competent to command a steamer like the
Guardian-Mother, my dear fellow?" asked Louis, with a rather quizzical
expression on his face.
"I know I am!" exclaimed Captain Scott emphatically; and he did not lack
confidence in himself. "Why not? If I can navigate the Maud, I could do
the same with the Guardian-Mother; for the size of the vessel don't make
any difference in the navigation as long as both of them go out to sea
off soundings. I suppose you doubt what I say?"
"I do not; for I am not a qualified judge in the matter," replied
Louis, who was considerably surprised at the amount of confidence the
captain of eighteen years of age had in himself. "But why is it lucky
for the pirate that Captain Ringgold, instead of Captain Scott, happens
to be in command of the ship?"
"Because I should serve her as the commander did another steamer of
about the size of the pirate, on the run of the ship from Bermuda to
Nassau, I believe it was, for I was not on board at the time," replied
the captain, with decision enough in his tones and manner to indicate
that he would do what he suggested. "I have heard Flix tell all about
the affair; and in his estimation Hercules and General Grant were
nothing at all compared with Captain Ringgold, when he tells the story.
I think he believes the commander is the greatest man that is or ever
was in this world, with the possible exception of yourself."
"That steamer was sailing illegally under the name of the Maud, for her
proper name was the Viking; but Captain Ringgold ran into her and
smashed a big hole in her port bow."
"As I would in one of the bows of the pirate."
"But there was a reason for it; I was a prisoner on board of that Maud,
or Viking--captured as this pirate would serve me if he got a chance."
"I would sink him before he got the chance, rather than after he had
picked you up," persisted the captain.
"I doubt if that would be a prudent measure," replied Louis, shaking his
head.
"The pirate has changed her course to the southward," said Felix, coming
to the window of the pilot-house again.
"What does that mean?" demanded the captain.
"It means that she is going to make a port at Rosetta."
"She is about off the Rosetta mouth of the Nile; but she is doing that
only to shake off the Guardian-Mother. What is the ship doing, Flix?"
"She continues on her course, and takes no notice of the pirate;" and
the lookout returned to his station.
Captain Scott rang the gong in the engine-room, and the screw of the
Maud immediately ceased to revolve. The sea was comparatively smooth,
and the little steamer rolled on the waves but slightly. As soon as the
screw stopped, and the little craft began to roll on the long swell,
Morris Woolridge put aside the "Chambers's" in which he had been reading
up Assyria and Babylon, and went out of the cabin into the
standing-room. He looked about him to ascertain the cause of the
stoppage; but he could make nothing of it.
He was a good skipper himself, and he did not like to ask Captain Scott
to explain the situation; for since he had gone into the cabin the
relative positions of the three steamers had decidedly changed. His idea
was that the Maud should follow the ship as usual; but she had dropped
at least a couple of miles astern of her, and the Fatimé was headed to
the southward. He could not understand the matter at all, and he
continued to study upon it.
Louis had come out of the pilot-house, and, looking aft, he discovered
Morris, and saw that he was perplexed by the situation, and that Assyria
was no longer the subject of his meditations.
"Morris is in the standing-room, and I have no doubt he is wondering why
we are wasting our steam just here, when the ship is going ahead at full
speed," said he to the captain. "Don't you think the time has come?"
"No doubt of it," answered the captain.
These last remarks may seem a little mysterious; but the present
situation had been foreseen by Captain Ringgold. Morris was the first
officer, and if the momentous secret was to be kept from him any longer,
it would require an amount of lying and deception which was utterly
repugnant to the principles of both the commander and Louis. The
representative of the Woolridge family on board of the Maud must be left
with his father and mother and sister on the ship, or the whole truth
must be told to the son. Thus far no lies had been necessary; and the
captain did not believe it would be wrong for him to conceal what would
be dangerous to the peace of mind of his passengers.
As long as Captain Ringgold conscientiously believed that neither Miss
Blanche nor Louis was in any peril, he considered it his duty to conceal
from their parents the plot of the Pacha and his agents. He was sure
that neither Mrs. Woolridge nor Mrs. Belgrave would consent to continue
the voyage even in the face of a very remote danger to their children.
He had abundant resources on board, including his two twelve-pounders,
for their protection; and he had used them on one occasion, though his
passengers did not understand the reason of the attack made on the Maud.
This subject had been considered before the vessels sailed from
Alexandria, and the commander declared that he could not adopt the
scheme of Scott, if they were to be required to utter no end of
falsehoods to Morris; and Louis absolutely refused to do so. They had
finally compromised by making the owner a committee of one to confer
with the subject of the difficulty when the time for action came. Like
the others, Morris was to be pledged to secrecy for the peace and
comfort of the mothers. If he refused to give the pledge, the plan of
Captain Scott was to be abandoned, and the Maud was to place herself
immediately under the wing of the Guardian-Mother again. The time for
action on this subject had come.
"I will go aft and have a talk with Morris; and I am only afraid he will
fly off at the want of confidence in him we have shown," said Louis.
"But his case is not a whit different from your own; for you have a
mother in the cabin as well as he," added the captain.
"But we have concealed everything from him for months; but Morris is as
good a fellow as ever sailed the seas, and he will be reasonable."
"I pledged myself to secrecy, and I think we had better make the 'Big
Four' a society for the protection of this secret till the end of the
voyage."
"We will consider that at another time," replied Louis as he moved aft.
He found Morris still looking about in order to solve what was a mystery
to him, as it must have been to the engineers and the cook; but they
were paid employes, and it was not proper for them to ask any questions.
"Anything broken down, Louis?" asked Morris, as his watch-mate took a
seat at his side.
"Nothing at all," replied the owner. "Do you believe, Morris, that you
could keep a very important secret if the peace and happiness of your
best friends on earth depended upon it?"
"I know I could, even from my mother, from whom I never kept a secret
except once, when I heard the doctor say something about the health of
Blanche last winter, not long before we sailed in the yacht. I knew that
it would worry the life out of her," replied Morris very seriously.
"This is a case just like that; and if the secret came out it would
worry the life out of your mother and mine, and perhaps seriously affect
the health of Miss Blanche."
"There is my hand, and I will pledge myself to any honest secret you may
impart to me; for I know you would not lead me to do anything wrong."
"I would jump overboard before I would lead you astray, Morris,"
protested Louis as he took the offered hand, and the pledge was
exchanged.
It required two hours to tell the whole story of the operations of
Captain Mazagan, begun at Constantinople four months before, including
the discovery of the plot of the conspirators in the café at Gallipoli.
Morris was astonished at the explanation given him of several incidents
with which he was familiar. He quite agreed with Louis as to the
necessity of keeping the secret; for his mother would worry herself into
a fit of sickness if she learned the truth. He agreed that there was no
alternative between abandoning the excursion, which would be a great
grief to him, and confining the secret to those who now knew it; and he
repeated his pledge with more earnestness than before.
CHAPTER IV
THE POSITION OF THE THREE STEAMERS
The conference in the standing-room of the Maud ended, and all the "Big
Four" were in possession of the secret upon the keeping of which the
continuation of the delightful excursion voyage depended. They stood on
a perfect equality now, and each was as wise as the others. When Louis
went forward, Morris went with him; and after the result of the
interview had been announced, Scott grasped the hand of the newly
initiated, and Felix followed his example.
"I can see that you are all glad to keep me no longer in the dark," said
Morris. "You must have been walking on glass all the time for fear that
I should break through, and upset your plan to keep me behind the
curtain."
"That is so," replied the captain. "We had to shut up tight while you
were in the pilot-house; and as Louis is in your watch, I stopped the
Maud partly to give him a chance to talk with you, and partly to carry
out the manoeuvre agreed upon."
"But I can't see why it was considered necessary to keep me in the
dark," added Morris. "Am I supposed to be any more leaky than the rest
of you?"
"I don't believe any one thought so," replied Louis. "You remember that
at Gallipoli, Flix and I went ashore in one of the two harbors, taking
Don with us to talk Turkish, though His Highness and Captain Mazagan did
their business in French, which they supposed no one near them could
speak or understand; and I happened to be the only one of our party who
took in all that was said. When we returned to the Guardian-Mother I
told Captain Ringgold all about it, in the presence of Flix. The
commander immediately directed us to say not a word about it to any
person. Even Captain Scott was kept in the dark till he and I were on
the verge of a quarrel in Pournea Bay."
"That is putting it a little too strong, Louis," interposed the captain.
"I should not have quarrelled with you under any circumstances; I could
not have done so."
"But I interfered with you in your command because I understood the
situation, and you did not; and Captain Ringgold told me to tell you all
there was to be told," Louis explained. "But he was not willing you
should be posted, Morris; for he feared that you might unintentionally
betray the secret to your mother. We have got along so far without
lying, and I believe the commander would throw up the voyage rather than
have any of us go beyond simple concealment without falsehood. As he
says, we are acting a lie, though we are doing it for the health,
comfort, and happiness of those we love the best on earth. The biggest
lies are sometimes told without the utterance of a vocal word."
"I am satisfied, fellows, and I am sure Captain Ringgold has acted from
the highest of motives. Now I should like to know something about the
manoeuvre in which you are engaged."
Captain Scott explained it in full. Felix had gone to his station in the
bow, to observe the movements of the Guardian-Mother and the Fatimé.
From there he had gone to the hurricane deck, in order to obtain a
better view. After an absence of half an hour he came into the
pilot-house again, with his glass under his arm; for it had now become
the emblem of his occupation.
"The ship is so far off that I can't tell whether or not she is still
rushing things; but I judge by her distance that the engine is making
things lively in the fire-room," said he.
"How about the Fatimé?" asked the captain. "I can still see her."
"The Fatty is sodjering."
"What do you mean by that, Flix?"
"She is wasting her time, and appears to be making not more than four
knots," replied Felix. "I judge that Captain Mazagan does not feel quite
at home."
"You think our movements bother him?" suggested Louis.
"Not the least doubt of that! The ship is going off at sixteen knots an
hour, and will soon be hull down, and we are lying here 'like a painted
ship upon a painted ocean.'"
"Coleridge!" exclaimed Morris, amused to hear Felix quote from a poem.
"In other words, he can't make out what we are driving at; for the Maud
has always kept under the wing of the Guardian-Mother," added the
captain. "But it is about time to give him something to think of."
As he spoke, Captain Scott rang the gong in the engine-room to go ahead,
and the screw began to turn again.
"Now keep your weather eye open tight, Flix!" and he threw the wheel
over, and fixed his gaze upon the compass in front of him. "You needn't
watch the G.-M. very closely, but give me the earliest notice of any
change in the course of the pirate; for I can hardly make her out now."
"How far is it from here to Port Said?" asked the lookoutman.
"To where? I don't know where Port Sed is," replied the captain,
pronouncing the word as Felix did.
"You don't know where the entrance to the Suez Canal is!" exclaimed the
lookout.
"That is what you mean, is it?"
"Of course it is; and that is what I said," protested Felix.
"You said Port Sed."
"I know it; if S-a-i-d don't spell Sed, what does it spell?" demanded
Felix.
"It spells S-a-h-i-d out here when you mean the port at the entrance of
the Suez Canal," replied the captain quietly and with a smile.
"Oh, you have become an Arabian scholar!" exclaimed Felix with a hearty
laugh.
"Honestly, Flix, I did not understand what you meant. I have studied up
the navigation in this region," continued Captain Scott, as he took from
a drawer in the case on which the binnacle stood a small plan of the
port in question. "Look at that, Flix, and tell me what the diæresis
over the i in Saïd is for."
"It means that the two vowels in the word are to be pronounced
separately, and I stand corrected," answered Felix promptly.
"I did not mean to correct you; for I make too many blunders myself to
pick up another fellow for doing so. I only wanted to explain why I did
not understand you. I had got used to pronouncing it Sah-eed, and Sed
does not sound much like it, and I did not take in what you meant, and
thought you were talking about some port in the island of Cyprus, where
we are bound."
"I accept your apology, Captain, and shift all the guilt to my own
shoulders. Now may I ask how far it is from here to Port Sah-eed?"
replied Felix very good-naturedly.
"It is 101.76 miles, by which, of course, I mean knots. I figured it up
from a point north of Rosetta," added the navigator.
"Won't you throw off the fraction?"
"No; if you run one hundred and one miles only, you will fetch up
three-quarters of a knot to the westward of the red light at the end of
the breakwater."
"That is putting a fine point on it; but I will go on the hurricane deck
and see what the Fatty is about," replied Felix.
"You have not rung the speed bell, Captain Scott, since you started the
screw," suggested Louis.
"I did not intend to do so yet a while," replied the captain. "I want to
know what the Fatty is about, as Felix calls her; and I think we had
better translate her heathen name into plain English."
"Flix's name would apply better to Uncle Moses and Dr. Hawkes than to
the Moorish steamer."
"We had a girl in our high school who bore that name, though she was a
full-blooded New Yorker; but the master always insisted upon putting the
accent on the first syllable, declaring that was the right way to
pronounce it. I know we have always pronounced the word Fat´-ee-may, and
that is where Flix got the foundation for his abbreviation."
"Fatty it is, Captain, if you say so. I wonder what the Fatty is about
just now?" added Louis.
"Flix will soon enlighten us on that subject, for he has a wonderfully
sharp pair of eyes."
"Do you really believe we shall get over to Cyprus, Captain Scott?"
asked Louis, looking sharply into the eyes of the navigator.
"Why should we not?"
"Because I don't believe Captain Ringgold intends to turn us loose on
the Mediterranean, and let us go it on our own hook, or rather on your
own hook; for you are the commander, and all the rest of us have to do
is to obey your orders," said Louis; and the little tiff between them
had gently and remotely suggested to him that Captain Scott had some
purpose in his mind which he would not explain to anybody.
His hint that if he were in command of the Guardian-Mother he would make
a hole in the side of the Fatimé, pointed to something of this kind,
though probably it was nothing more than a vague idea. He had suggested
the plan upon which the ship and her consort were then acting, and
perhaps it had some possibility of which the commander had not yet
dreamed.
"Can you tell me why that steam-yacht of over six hundred tons is
crowding on steam, and running away towards Port Said, while we are, by
Captain Ringgold's order, headed for Cyprus?" asked the captain.
"Of course I can. He expects by this means to draw off the Fatty, and
set her to chasing the Maud, so that the party will not be bothered with
any conspiracies while we are going through the canal," replied Louis.
"What then?"
"If the Fatty chases us, the Guardian-Mother will put in an appearance
before any harm comes to the Maud, or to any one on board of her."
"Precisely so; that is the way the business is laid out," replied
Captain Scott; but he looked just as though something more might be said
which he did not care to say.
"But it remains to be shown whether the Fatty will follow the Maud or
the ship," added Louis.
"She will not follow the Guardian-Mother," said the navigator very
decidedly.
"How do you know, Captain? You speak as positively as though Captain
Mazagan had told you precisely what he intended to do."
"Of course he has told me nothing, for I have not seen him. Common-sense
is all I have to guide me."
They were about to go into a further discussion of the question when
Felix came tumbling down the ladder from the upper deck as though he was
in a hurry.
"What has broken now, Flix?" demanded the captain.
"Nothing; but the question is settled," replied the lookoutman, stopping
at the front window of the pilot-house, as though he had something
important to say. "The ship looks like a punctuation mark on the sea,
and"--
"Is it a full stop?" asked Captain Scott.
"I don't know; but I think not. She is so far off that I can't make out
whether she is moving or not; but she is not sending as much smoke out
of her funnel as she was."
"Then your news is a little indefinite."
"As indefinite as a broken barometer. But I did not come down to report
upon the ship alone," added the lookoutman.
"Give out the text, and go on with the sermon."
"The text is in the back part of Jonah, where Job swallowed the whale.
The Fatty has come about and is now under a full head of steam, as
nearly as I can judge," said Felix, who thought he was treated with too
much levity over a serious subject. "I couldn't see her compass, but the
arrow-head is directly under the mark, according to my figuring of it."
