"I never went to a theatre in my life!" protested Mrs. Belgrave.
"But this is a representation in connection with the religious traditions
of the Hindus," argued his lordship.
It was decided to go, the scruples of the Methodists being overcome by the
fact that it was a religious occasion, and not at all like the stage
performances of New York. The carriages conveyed them to the house
indicated by Sahib Govind, and they were conducted to a hall, at one end of
which was a stage, with a thin calico curtain in front of it. The
performance was just beginning.
A Brahmin came out in front of the curtain, with some musicians, and set up
an image of Ganesa, the god of wisdom; then he prayed this idol to
enlighten the minds of the actors, and enable them to perform their parts
well, which was certainly very untheatrical, the Americans thought, when
Sir Modava had translated the substance of the invocation. The Brahmin then
announced that the subject of the play was the loves of the god Krishna.
"Who is the hero of the piece, Sir Modava?" asked Mr. Woolridge, who was a
theatre-goer at home.
"He is really Vishnu, one of the Hindu trinity, known as the preserver.
Vishnu has a considerable number of forms, or incarnations, one of which is
Krishna, the most human of them all."
The curtain rose, and cut short the explanation. The scene, painted on
canvas, was an Indian temple. A figure with an enormous wig, his half-naked
body daubed all over with yellow paint, was seated before it, abstracted in
the deepest meditation. The interpreter told them it was Rishi, a
supernatural power, a genius who is a protector to those who need his
services. Then a crowd of gods and goddesses rushed on the stage, and each
of them made a long speech to the devotee-god, which Sir Modava had not
time to render into English, even with the aid of Sahib Govind.
The actors were fantastically dressed. One had an elephant's head, and all
of them wore high gilt mitres. Krishna enters, and the other divinities
make their exit. He is a nice-looking young man, painted blue, and dressed
like a king. His wife enters, and throws herself at his feet. Then she
reproaches him for forsaking her, in a soft and musical voice, her eyes
raining tears all the time. She embraces his knees.
Then appears the rival in her affections with Krishna, Rukmini, an
imperious woman, and tells by what artifices she has conquered the weak
husband. Then follows a spirited dialogue between the two women. The rival
boasts of her descent from Vishnu, and of her beauty and animation, and
reproaches Krishna with his unworthy love. Sir Modava wrote this down in
his memorandum book, and handed it to the Americans.
Satyavama, the wife, insists that her only crime was her love for her
divine husband. She narrates her early history, when she was a peasant girl
on the banks of the Jumna, with her companions, and drew upon herself the
attention of the god. Her life had been simple, and she had always been a
faithful wife. Yet Rukmini triumphs over her. Her pride is aroused; she
rushes off, and returns with her little son.
"Kill us both, since we cannot live without your love!" the interpreters
rendered her piteous cry. The rival ridicules her, and, urged on by her,
Krishna hands her a cup of poison, which she drinks, and sinks to the
ground.
"It is not the poison that rends me; it is that my heart is broken by the
ingratitude of one I have so dearly loved." She forgives him, and dies.
But not thus does the Indian love-story end; for the genie enters, and in
thundering tones calls Krishna to an account for his deeds. The festive god
is tortured with remorse, but has no excuse to offer. He drives Rukmini
from him, and implores the yellow-painted god for forgiveness; and, as he
is the preserver, it is granted. Satyavama is brought back to life. She
presents her son to her husband, who holds out his arms to embrace him; and
the curtain drops in a blaze of Bengal lights, and the "Wah! Wahs!" of the
Hindu audience.
The interpreters finished their explanations, and the company retired with
the salaams of the crowd. It was very late when they retired to rest that
night.
                                 CHAPTER XXI
                           JUGGERNAUT AND JUGGLERS
The next day was Sunday, and none of the party appeared in the parlor till
quite late; not because it was the Sabbath, but because they were all very
tired, even the four lively boys, who had done more sightseeing than the
rest of the tourists. They were always on the wing, and while the older
ones rested, they always found some novelty which drew them away from the
hotel. Of the four servants only two attended upon them. They had
practically retired two of them with some difficulty when they were away
from the party, for they were a nuisance to them, so many of them.
Sayad and Moro were retained, however; for they were more intelligent than
the others, spoke English better, and were more enterprising, frequently
suggesting some means of amusement to them. They were interested in the
boys and girls, and Sayad told Louis and Felix all about them,--about their
homes, their schools, their sports; and Moro did the same for Scott and
Morris. On this Sunday they were conducted to a Sunday-school of two
hundred scholars, under the direction of the missionaries, though the
teachers are mostly natives.
It was a strange sight to them, the variety of races, the strange costumes,
and the absence of any considerable portion of costume at all. There were
Mohammedans, Chinamen, negroes, Jews, and a few Europeans. They fell in
with the missionary from England, who told them a good deal about their
work, and how interested they were in it, declaring that they could see the
fruits of their labors, detailing a number of instances of conversions.
They had a day-school also, and they hired a strict Hindu because he taught
English so well. He hated the Christians, and did his work only because he
was paid for it; but he had to listen to the prayers and exhortations, and
finally he yielded in spite of himself, and became a very useful Christian
minister.
This gentleman said that the number of Christians in India had doubled
within ten years. He invited the party to come to the church, and the boys
hastened back to the hotel to tell their friends about it. They all went to
this meeting, including their three distinguished guides. The service was
about the same as at home, the clergyman was a native of the Brahmin caste,
and he preached a very earnest and sensible sermon. The funds of the
mission were increased at least a thousand dollars by this visit.
In the evening the entire company attended the Church of England at the
invitation of Lord Tremlyn; and the sermon was preached by the Bishop of
Bombay. The Methodists were as much pleased with it as though it had been
delivered by one of their own fold. A portion of the day was passed in
writing letters to their friends at home, and quite a bundle of them was
collected for the post by Louis. They were all sealed, with stamps affixed,
and Morris's servant Mobarak was directed to put them in the mail-box. But
the fellow shook his head, and declined to obey.
His sahib was proceeding to give him a lecture in rather energetic terms,
when Sir Modava interposed, and explained that the servant had religious
scruples, knowing that the stamp had been wet on the tongues of the
senders, which made it unclean to him, and he could not touch it.
"I have heard of a young man not older than Mobarak who lost his life
rather than come in contact with the saliva of a foreigner; but I doubt if
many would carry their fanaticism to that extent," he added.
The next morning the party were up at six o'clock, and after they had taken
their coffee, carried up to them by their servants, went out to walk by two
and threes; but they returned by seven o'clock, and were assembled in the
parlor. The sights in the streets had become rather an old story by this
time, and there was not much to be said about them.
"Have you recovered from the fatigues of Saturday, Mrs. Belgrave?" asked
Lord Tremlyn.
"Entirely, my Lord. I am quite ready for the next item in your programme,"
replied the lady.
"How did you enjoy the play, madam?" inquired Sir Modava.
"As a religious exhibition, from my point of view, it was a failure."
"It does not convey much of an idea of even the mythology of the Hindus,"
added Professor Giroud. "If Krishna was a divinity, or even an incarnation
of one, he is a very bad representation of the piety and morality of the
gods. The affair was well enough as a love-story, but the conclusion looked
like a pleasant satire on those authors who insist that their tales and
novels shall have an agreeable ending;" and the professor indulged in a
hearty laugh as he recalled the manner in which Satyavama had been brought
back to life by the divinity in yellow paint.
"I like that kind of a winding up of a story, and I don't like the other
kind," added the magnate of the Fifth Avenue. "We read novels, if we read
them at all, for the fun of it, with some incidental information in the
right direction. When I was a young man I had a taste for the sea, as most
boys have, and I read Marryat's novels with immense pleasure. In 'The
King's Own,' after following the young fellow in his adventures all over
the world, his life terminated just as he was reaching home, and I was
disgusted. I have read most of this author's books again, but I never
looked into 'The King's Own' a second time."
"I think we all like to have a story 'end well,' though it was a rather
violent bringing up Saturday night," said Dr. Hawkes. "But the actresses in
that play were all exceedingly pretty girls, and I did not suppose so many
of them could be found in all India."
"That was just what I was saying to Govind after the performance, and he
laughed as though he would choke himself to death," interposed Lord
Tremlyn, laughing rather earnestly himself. "There was not a single female
on the stage; for the custom of the theatre here does not permit women to
appear, any more than it did in the time of Shakespeare."
"But I saw them!" exclaimed the surgeon. "I think I know a woman when I see
one, though I am an old bachelor, and rather a tough one at that."
"Not always, Doctor; for not one of those you call girls was a female. A
woman on the Hindu stage is a thing unknown," rallied the viscount.
"I suppose I must give it up, though I would not do so on any less
authority than that of your lordship," replied the surgeon good-naturedly.
All the rest of the party expressed their astonishment in terms hardly less
strong; and the ladies were even more incredulous than the gentlemen.
"As Govind told me, all the female parts were taken by boys remarkable for
their beauty and the sweetness of their voices," added his lordship. "But
this is understood to be our last day in Bombay, though the limitation of
time does not come from any suggestion of mine; and we must make the best
use of what remains. You have not half seen Bombay yet."
"We should need ten years for our trip if we were to exhaust every place we
visit," replied Captain Ringgold. "All we expect is to get a fair idea of a
city; and I think we have done that here, especially as we shall see the
same things, as far as manners and customs are concerned, many times before
we finally take our leave of the country at Colombo in Ceylon."
"While we are quietly seated here, I should like to ask for some
information in regard to Juggernaut," said Uncle Moses. "I used to read the
most horrible stories in my Sabbath-school books about that idol."
"Those stories, as I have been informed by elderly Englishmen, were
published in the United Kingdom, and all of them are inventions or gross
exaggerations," replied Sir Modava, with his pleasant smile. "Puri, or
Juggernaut, is in the district of Orissa, on the western shore of the Bay
of Bengal. It is one of the holiest places in India among the Hindus. It
contains a temple of Juggernaut, in honor of Vishnu, in which is an idol of
this Hindu god, called Jagannath, which is mentioned in history as far back
as A.D. 318. Vishnu is the Preserver of the Hindu trinity, and therefore in
an especial sense the god of the people; and sometimes 100,000 natives
gather at this shrine, bringing offerings to the value of nearly £40,000.
"The town has a population of twenty-two thousand, and it contains six
thousand lodging-houses for the pilgrims who visit it. The chief temple has
a hundred and twenty others in an enclosure, with a tower one hundred and
ninety-two feet high. Juggernaut's car, of which you have read, Mr.
Scarburn, is a sort of temple, thirty-five feet square, and forty-five feet
high, with wheels seven feet high. The car-festival is the chief of
twenty-four held every year, when the idol is dragged to the country house.
Though the distance is less than a mile, the sand is so deep in the roadway
that it requires several days to complete the journey.
"The idols in the temple are hideous-looking objects, with enormous eyes
and crescent-shaped mouths, the horns pointing upwards. But they are very
richly ornamented; for the idol has an income of over £30,000 from lands
and religious houses. It used to be currently reported and believed that
fanatical, crazy devotees cast themselves under the wheels of the car, and
were crushed to death, immolating themselves as an offering to the god. But
these statements have been strictly investigated, and branded as the
calumnies of English writers. Two distinguished savants have declared that
self-immolation is utterly contrary to the worship of Juggernaut, the very
unusual deaths at the car-festival being almost invariably accidental."
"It is a great pity that these horrible stories were ever poured into the
minds of children, and I am thankful that the libraries contain nothing of
the kind now," added Uncle Moses.
The company breakfasted with excellent appetites after the exercises of the
morning; and then Lord Tremlyn conducted them to the large saloon where the
Nautch had been given, and they were astonished to find that one end of it
was occupied by no less than fourteen men, not one of whom was more than
half clothed, though the tom-tom player had on a pair of short trousers.
This fellow began to beat his instrument with frantic energy, moaning and
howling at the same time as though he was in great agony.
"Oh, dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, putting her fingers into her ears.
"Can't you stop that hideous noise, Sir Modava?"
"No more howling!" protested he in Hindu.
The chief juggler declared that they could not go on, and Uncle Moses
suggested that they had to overwhelm the senses of the audience to enable
the jugglers to deceive them. Their Hindu guide talked with them, and then
ordered them to leave the hotel. The performers were not willing to forego
the rich reward expected; and a compromise was effected by which the
tom-tom was to be used, but the howling was to cease. Lord Tremlyn had
announced the nature of the entertainment as they entered the apartment,
and most of the tourists had heard of the wonderful skill of Indian
jugglers.
A couple of the performers produced two swords twenty-six inches long, and
pushed them down their throats to the hilt, and then asked Dr. Hawkes to
feel the point in their stomachs. Another put a stone in his mouth, and
then began to blow out smoke and a cloud of sparks from his nose as well as
his mouth. Turning a somerset, he cast the stone on the floor. One took an
iron hoop from a pile of them, and set it to spinning on a pole in the air.
He continued to add others, one at a time, till he had eighteen of them
whirling above his head.
Another set a lot of small swords circling in the air, till he had ten of
them buzzing about his head. At the same time a sleight-of-hand man was
doing a variety of tricks very skilfully, and acrobats were mounting on
each other's shoulders, and pitching themselves about very promiscuously.
While the party were wondering at the skill of the performers, though many
of them had seen most of the tricks at home, a boy about eight years old
came into the room with a good-sized basket in his hands, which he placed
on the floor as the men spread out into a semicircle. The child stepped
into the basket, which did not seem to be big enough to hold him, even when
reduced to his smallest dimensions.
The drummer played a new tune, and sang in a low tone. The boy seemed to
have a fit, and writhed as though he were in convulsions, finally dropping
down into the basket very slowly. Mrs. Blossom was sure the basket was not
big enough to contain him, and wondered what had become of him. Then the
performers threw themselves on the basket, closed the lid, and began to
punch it in every direction with long and wicked-looking knives. The ladies
were appalled at the sight; but they were assured that it was all right.
The Hindus finally crushed down the basket till it was almost flat, and it
did not look as though there was any space in it for a kitten, much less an
eight-year-old boy. Then the men formed a circle around the basket, and
began a sort of chant. Something like a voice seemed to be sounding in at
the open windows. It continued to come nearer, and at last appeared to
proceed from the basket, which began to be distended, till it was restored
to its full size. Then the lid was removed, and the child sprang out, to
the great relief of Mrs. Blossom.
Then one of the jugglers set a top to whirling, placed the point on the end
of a stick, and balanced it on his nose. So far it was no new thing; but
one of the spectators was asked to say stop at any time he pleased. Captain
Ringgold gave this command; and when he did so, the top ceased to whirl,
though, upsetting the bicycle theory, it kept its place on the stick. "Go!"
added the commander, prompted by Sir Modava; and the plaything began to
whirl again, as though its gyrations had not been interrupted. It was
stopped and started again several times, till the spectators were
satisfied.
The stick and the top were critically examined by the whole party, but not
one of them could suggest an explanation of the trick. The last two acts
were the most surprising; and the rest of the performance, though skilfully
done, did not amount to much. His lordship gave the chief juggler a handful
of silver, and they left the hotel with a profusion of salaams; for they
did not often make in a month what they got for an hour, the Hindu
gentleman said.
                                 CHAPTER XXII
                       A MERE STATEMENT ABOUT BUDDHISM
"I looked into a Hindu temple this morning while I was walking about," said
Louis Belgrave, after the jugglers had been discussed a while. "I saw some
very ugly-looking idols; and I should like to ask if they really represent
individuals, or are creatures of the imagination."
"Both," replied Sir Modava with a smile; "there are, as you have been told
before, a great many different sects, and a system of mythology. About all
the gods and goddesses known to the Greeks and Romans have an existence in
the Indian mythology more or less similar to them. Indra, the counterpart
of Apollo in some of his functions, drives the chariot of fire that lights
the day.
"Rhemba was born of the sea, and is the Indian Venus; Cama is Cupid;
Parvati, whose image you saw at Elephanta, is Ceres; and so on to the end
of the chapter. These divinities are represented in the temples, but they
are without form or comeliness."
"They are not much like the beautiful statues of the Greeks," added Louis.
"The most prominent Indian sects are the Saïvas, or worshippers of Siva;
the Vaïshnavas, who bow down to Vishnu under his several incarnations, like
Krishna, whom you could not greatly respect; and the Jaïns, allied to the
Buddhists, found mostly in the northern sections of India. They occupy
important positions, and possess wealth and influence. There are
subdivisions into sects among them, and it would be quite impossible to
follow them through the mazes of belief to which they adhere. There is a
great deal of philosophy among many of the sects."
"But what are the Buddhists?" inquired Dr. Hawkes.
"Buddhism is quite as much a philosophy as a religion. It is not as
prevalent in India proper as formerly; though it is still dominant in
Ceylon, Napaul, Burma, and in the more northern countries of Asia. Its
history is somewhat indefinite. Gautama, of whom a great many pretty
stories are told, is sometimes regarded as the founder; though some who
have studied the history of the sect, or order, do not believe that the
Buddha was a real person, but an allegorical figure.
"Those who give a personal origin to the system, now said to be the
religion of one-third of the human race, begin with Prince Siddhartha, a
young man disposed to be an ascetic, and inclined to retire from the world.
In order to wean him from his meditative tendency, his father, in order to
cure him, and prevent him from forsaking his caste, married him to a
beautiful princess, and introduced him to the splendid dissipation of a
luxurious court. A dozen years of this life convinced him that 'all was
vanity and vexation of spirit,' and he became a sort of hermit, a religious
beggar, and spent his time in dwelling upon the miseries of human life.
"He used up years in this manner, and after much reasoning, came to the
conclusion that ignorance was misery. He gave himself up to study, and at
last came to believe that he had reached the perfection of wisdom. The tree
under which he sat when he reached this result was then called
Bodhidruma, or the tree of intelligence; and the Buddhists believe
the spot where it grew to be the centre of the earth. A tree that passes
for this one was discovered by a Chinese, still standing twelve hundred
years after the death of the Buddha; and the bo-tree of Ceylon is regarded
as its legitimate descendant. You have been told something about it.
"In Benares, having ascertained the cause of human misery, and learned the
remedy for it, the Buddha began to preach his peculiar salvation. In the
phrase of his religion he 'turned the wheel of the law.' One of his titles
is Chakravartin, which means 'the turner of a wheel.' The doctrines
of the Buddha are written out on a wheel, which is set in motion with a
crank, though it is sometimes operated by horse-power; and such machines
are sometimes seen in front of religious houses in Thibet, and the monks
have portable ones."
"I thought the religion of Thibet was the worship of the Grand Lama,"
suggested Louis.
"That is a form of Buddhism. The most important of the converts of the
Buddha was the Rajah of Magadha, or Behar, on the Ganges, which gave him a
good start, and it has since made almost incredible progress. It would take
too long to state the doctrines in detail of this sect, and you get an idea
of what it must be from what I said of its founder. Its leading doctrine is
the transmigration of souls, also called by that tough word,
metempsychosis, though other Hindu systems adopt this belief. It seems to
include the recognition of the immortality of the soul, which at the death
of the body passes into another form of existence,--a man, a woman, a lower
animal, or even a tree or other plant. The Buddha claims to have been born
five hundred and fifty times,--a hermit, a slave, a king, a monkey, an
elephant, a fish, a frog, a tree, etc. When he reached his highest
condition of perfection, he could recall all these different states of
being; and he has written them out.
"Some of the negroes of Africa have this belief, and when a child is born
they decide upon the ancestor whose soul has returned to the flesh in this
world. There are one hundred and thirty-six Buddhist hells, regularly
graded in the degree of suffering experienced and the length of time it
endures, the shortest term being ten million years. A good life secures an
elevated and happy life on earth, or as a blessed spirit in one of the many
heavens, where existence is continued for a bagatelle of ten billion years.
When the karma is exhausted"--
"What in the world is that?" asked Mrs. Blossom, who was struggling to
understand the subject.
"It is the allotted term of existence, including the manner of living,
whether in bliss or misery. The person must be born again, and then become
a god, or the vilest creature that crawls the earth, according as he has
behaved himself. The Buddhists do not appear to have any idea of a personal
God; and they are practically atheists, though there are many good things
in their system. They recognize no omniscient, omnipresent, all-powerful
Supreme Being, who presides over the universe and all that is in it. They
are pessimists, and believe that life, on the whole, is misery, a curse
rather than a blessing. I have given you only a faint outline of what
Buddhism is. It has points in which it resembles Christianity. Buddha is
dead and gone; but his followers put up petitions to him, though there is
no one to hear and answer their prayers. But I must stop for the want of
time rather than because there is nothing more to be said; and I have done
no more than touch the subject."
"But it is not very different from Brahminism," suggested Professor Giroud.
"You are quite right, Professor," replied Sir Modava. "Brahma means the
universal spirit; but it is not a personal divinity to be worshipped. I
believe there is not an idol or sculpture in all India that represents
Brahma. Something that passes for this mystic spirit is represented with
four heads."
"But is there not a new church or philosophy of recent date--I mean Brahmo
Somaj?" inquired Dr. Hawkes.
"Rammohun Roy, or Rajah Ram Mohan Rai, was a Hindu ruler in the Presidency
of Bengal, born in 1772. His ancestors were Brahmins of high birth. He
studied Sanskrit, Arabian, and Persian, and was a profound scholar and
philosopher. When he began to have some doubt about the faith of his
fathers, he went to Thibet to study Buddhism, where he was so outspoken
that he offended the priests and others, and his religious belief brought
upon him the enmity of his own family. In 1803 he lived in Benares, and
held a public office at one time. He published works in the languages with
which he was familiar, directed against idolatry, which he labored to
uproot.
"He succeeded to abundant wealth at the death of his brother in 1811. His
influence assisted in the abolition of the suttee, and in bringing about
other reforms. He published 'The Precepts of Jesus,' accepting his
morality, but denying his divinity and the truth of the miracles. More than
fifty years ago he started an association which became the Brahmo Somaj,
which is a living and working society still. He went to England in 1831,
and was received with great respect and friendliness. I have great
reverence for the man, though I do not accept all his religious views."
"Lord Tremlyn informed this company in regard to the divisions of caste, so
that I think we have a tolerable idea of the matter," said Captain
Ringgold, reading from a paper in his hand. "But all these sects and castes
are divided again into tribes and trade societies. Then there is a
considerable portion of the people who, though they are fully recognized as
Hindus, are outside of the pale of this multiform organization."
"I should say that all this would make endless complications in business
and society. Each of these societies, or whatever you may call them, is
independent, and has its own regulations. None of its members can marry
into another caste, or even eat with those of a lower rank. A man born into
one of these associations having a particular business cannot take up
another calling without being pinched by the social law in all that he
holds dear in life. His wife deserts him, his children refuse to
acknowledge him as their father, and his property is absorbed by his
society or caste. All this for no crime, no immorality; and he may be a
noble and true man. If he chooses to be a tinker, instead of a trader, all
the gods of Hindu antiquity light upon his head, and worry him to the
funeral pyre by the shore."
"That is quite true, Captain, and I join with you in condemning this
grossly heathen institution," added Sir Modava. "But time and Christianity
will yet do their work, and my country will be saved. But I submit, my dear
Captain, that there is another side to the question."
"Quite true, and I was about to state it. The man who remains faithful to
the requirements of the society is protected and supported. Wherever he
goes, at whatever distance from his country he may be, he finds a roof and
a hearthstone which he may make his own for the time. If gone for years, he
will find the house and the field of his fathers undisturbed, of which he
may take possession. This institution may remove care and anxiety from the
mind of the man, and make him, as we find here, calm and contented, but
without the ambition of the business-man. I have taken most of this from a
book I found in Bombay."
"The most influential caste here are mostly Jains and Buniahs; and though
they belong to different tribes, they are united in business matters. They
wear their own costumes; but they have done more than any others for the
prosperity of the place," said Lord Tremlyn. "They are the speculators in
cottons and other goods, and many of them have immense wealth. The Buniahs
are always intelligent, and somewhat aristocratic. You may know one of them
by his tall turban, like a shako, though sometimes it is rolled like a
conch-shell. Around his dress he wears a red band, which he twists about
his limbs, and has a long calico tunic closely fitted to his chest. His
chosen calling is that of a commercial broker.
"These rich Hindus, while adhering to everything required by their
religion, adopt English fashions, and revel in British luxuries. You will
see them late in the afternoon on the public roads, in elegant carriages,
drawn by the finest horses, and attended by servants in rich liveries.
Their houses are magnificent, furnished like the Parsee's we visited the
other evening. The social intercourse between them and their European
neighbors is very limited.
"The Mohammedans here are an important class of people, and some of them
are very wealthy, and are honest and upright merchants. They are very
strict in the observance of their religion, and not one of them would eat
pork or drink wine or liquors. If it were the beginning of their year,
which is different from ours, you might witness a celebration of the day.
It is called the Mohurrum, and takes place on the shore of the Back Bay.
They construct a great number of temples of gilt paper, and after marching
with them in procession through the city, they cast them into the sea. I do
not quite understand what it means; but the first month is usually a time
of mourning and fasting in commemoration of the sufferings of the two
nephews of the Prophet. The ceremony at the water is very ancient."
"The wives of Mussulmans here have more liberty than in most Eastern
countries. They go about the streets with their faces uncovered, and are
clothed for the most part like the Hindu women. As they appear in the
street they are not so neat as the other native females, who spend much
time in bathing, and are always clean and tidy. I have nothing more to say
at present."
"I have an announcement to make," said Captain Ringgold. "To-morrow
forenoon we shall return to the Guardian-Mother, and sail for Surat."
The party spent the rest of the day in excursions about Bombay in three
parties, each under the direction of one of the hosts.
                                 CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE UNEXAMPLED LIBERALITY OF THE HOSTS
The Blanche, the elegant white steam-yacht of General Noury, which had
sailed in company with the Guardian-Mother from Aden, and which had
assisted in the rescue of the crew of the Travancore, had come into the
harbor of Bombay, and lay at anchor not half a mile from her consort. The
owner was a Moor of the highest rank, and a Mohammedan; and he had friends
in Bombay, though he had never been there before. He had written to them of
his intended visit, and they had taken possession of him on his arrival.
The general had been invited, with Captain and Mrs. Sharp, to join the
party of her consort in the business of sight-seeing; and Lord Tremlyn and
Sir Modava had united with Captain Ringgold in the invitation. The
commander of the Blanche had visited the party on shore; but he was engaged
in making some changes on board of his ship which required his attention.
The Mohammedan magnates had kept the general very busy, night and day, and
fêted him like a king.
Lord Tremlyn had taken care of the engineers and other people of the
wrecked steam-yacht, and had treated everybody in a subordinate capacity
with princely liberality. He and his Indian associate were both
multi-millionaires, with fortunes inherited from their ancestors and other
relatives; and unitedly they had placed a large sum of money in the hands
of the captains of the two steamers, to be equitably distributed among
their ships' companies. Captain Ringgold remonstrated against this lavish
gift to his own people.
"It is a sailor's duty, and a large part of his religion, to assist those
in peril and distress on the sea, the poor and the rich alike, and I
dislike to have my men rewarded in money for a service of this kind," said
he rather warmly.
"It was the good Father in heaven who sent your ship to our aid when we
were perishing; but he works through human agencies, and I feel it to be a
solemn duty to recognize my obligations to those so providentially sent to
save us," replied his lordship, taking the hand of the commander with much
feeling in his tone and manner. "I shall never cease to be grateful to
Heaven for this interposition in my favor, and that of my companions; for
all of us were in the very jaws of death."
"I can understand your feelings, my Lord; but all my people, as well as
myself, may soon require the same service we have rendered to others, and I
desire to let what we have done be placed to our credit against the
possible debt of the future," added the captain.
"I shall feel better and happier when I have done, in connection with Sir
Modava, what I propose, and I beg you will withdraw your objections,"
persisted the viscount.
They argued the question for some time; but at last the commander yielded
the point. Every seaman, fireman, and waiter received five pounds, and
every officer a larger sum, in proportion to his rank, after the manner in
which prize-money is distributed on board of ships of war. The same
apportionment was made on board of both steamers, and Lord Tremlyn and Sir
Modava were most vigorously cheered by the two ships' companies.
Due notice had been given to Captain Sharp of the intention to sail for
Surat on Tuesday; and on the day before the cabin party of the Blanche,
which included Dr. Henderson, the surgeon of the ship, came to dine with
their friends at the Victoria Hotel. General Noury, who had been taking
leave of his Mussulman hosts, was attended by three of them, who were at
once invited by his lordship to join them at dinner, and the band of the
Blanche had been sent on shore for the occasion.
The general had been taken about the city and its vicinity by his host, and
they were anxious to retain him longer in Bombay. He was on excellent terms
with Lord Tremlyn, who, though a strict Churchman, was not a bigot; and his
connection with the affairs of India had brought him into intimate
association with men of all religions, and there were about thirteen
million Mohammedans in the Punjab.
His lordship renewed his invitation to the general to join the party who
were going across India, and he seemed to be inclined to accept it. His
Mussulman friends declared that he would be most cordially welcomed by all
the people of their faith, especially if attended by such excellent
Christian people; and they appeared to have none of the bigotry so often
found among the followers of the Prophet.
"I don't quite understand your plan, Captain Ringgold," said Captain Sharp.
"You go to Surat, and from there across the country;" for the conductors
had decided not to go to Kurrachee. "But what becomes of the ships?"
"The Guardian-Mother will proceed to Calcutta, as soon as we land, in
charge of Mr. Boulong," replied Captain Ringgold. "We shall join her
there."
The commander of the Blanche shook his head; and after some discussion he
declined to join the tourists, and his wife would not go without him.
Doubtless he had some strong reasons for his decision, though he did not
state them; but probably he had not as much confidence in his first officer
as Captain Ringgold had in Mr. Boulong. The question was settled that the
general should go, and he insisted that Dr. Henderson should go with him;
and with three physicians in the excursion they appeared to be provided for
any emergency.
The dinner was a very merry affair. The band played to the delight of all;
and one of the general's friends declared that they had no such music in
Bombay, to which he replied that he had engaged the best he could find in
Italy. The company retired to the parlor, and the band played on the
veranda for an hour longer. Some of the most distinguished of the civil and
military officers located in the city called at this hour by invitation of
the viscount, to pay their respects to the visitors; and Mrs. Blossom
declared that she was never so "frustrated" in all her life.
"I should like to take my band with me," said General Noury, when the
officials had all departed. "I am very fond of music, and I think it will
afford us all a great deal of pleasure; of course I mean at my own
expense."
"I beg your pardon, General Noury, but it must be at my expense,"
interposed Lord Tremlyn. "I was thinking myself what an addition it would
be to have such excellent music on our way, and I am sure it will add a
great deal to the earnestness of the welcome we shall everywhere receive.
As to the expense, I hope and beg that not another word will be said about
it. The entire party are the guests of Sir Modava and myself."
"I protest"--Captain Ringgold began.
"Pardon me, my dear Captain; you are all our guests, and protests are
entirely out of order," interposed Lord Tremlyn.
It was a very pleasant and friendly dispute that followed, and his lordship
had carried his point at the close of it. The commander had been to the
landlord, and asked for his bill; but the worthy Parsee informed him that
it had already been paid. He had remonstrated with the hosts; but they had
been inflexible. It was finally decided that nothing more should be said
about expense; for his lordship declared that it was a very disagreeable
subject to him. The captain believed that he was entirely sincere; and
though he had never encountered such extreme liberality before, he gave up
the point.
"You can tie your purse-strings with a hard knot, Uncle Moses, for you will
not have occasion to undo them again for a month," said Captain Ringgold.
"I don't quite like it."
"I don't know that I wonder at the generosity of our hosts," replied the
trustee, as he put his fat arm around the neck of Louis, who stood next to
him. "If this young man had been in the situation of Lord Tremlyn and Sir
Modava when you picked them up, I am very sure I should not have grumbled
if I had been called upon to disburse a sum equal to what this trip will
cost them, if they, or any one, had picked him up. There are two sides to
this question, Captain."
"Then you fight on the other side, though you hold the purse-strings," said
the commander.
"Would I give a hundred thousand dollars for saving Sir Louis's life? His
mother would give ten times that sum, and all the rest of the young man's
fortune. That is a matter about which we must not be mean; and the other
side take that view of it. I quite agree that not another word ought to be
said about expense," responded Uncle Moses, giving the young millionaire
another hug.
"Uncle Moses is not a bit like the miser that could not afford a candle at
his death-bed in the night," added Louis. "If they had done as much for us
as we have for them, I should be glad to take them all around the world,
and pay for an Italian band of music all the way."
"That's right, Sir Louis! Do as you would be done by," chuckled the
trustee.
"It just occurs to me, Captain Sharp," said the commander of the
Guardian-Mother, as the former was about to leave, "that there is no reason
for your going to Surat, for we can take the general, Dr. Henderson, and
the band along with us. You have a voyage of two thousand miles before
you."
"Which I can make in seven or eight days without hurrying," replied the
captain of the Blanche. "I could get to Calcutta before you do if I sailed
two weeks hence."
"Just as you please."
But General Noury seemed to like the idea of getting on board of the
Guardian-Mother even for a day, and adopted the suggestion of Captain
Ringgold.
"There is next to nothing to be seen at Surat, and we shall go from there
immediately to Baroda, on our way to Lahore," interposed Lord Tremlyn. "The
Maharajah of Gwalior is an old friend of Sir Modava, and I am well
acquainted with him. I have no doubt we shall be very hospitably treated
there, and that you will be introduced to many things that will interest
you. If Captain Sharp desires to see some Indian sports, he can go with us
to Baroda, stay a week, and then return to his ship here by railway."
"I like that idea, as my wife wishes to see a little more of India on
shore, though she does not wish to take the long journey you are to make,"
added Captain Sharp.
This plan was accepted, and the party separated. The next morning the
carriages conveyed them to the Apollo Bunder, and at seven o'clock the
Guardian-Mother was under way. The band was playing on the promenade, and
the party were taking their last view of Bombay and its surroundings.
Captain Sharp and his wife were on board. The three doctors formed a trio
by themselves, and were discussing jungle fever, which existed in the low
lands beyond Byculla.
The sea outside was smooth; and at four o'clock in the afternoon the
steamer was among the Malacca shoals, in the Gulf of Cambay, with a pilot
on board. She soon entered the Tapti River, fifteen miles from its mouth.
The band had scattered after the noonday concert, and the party took the
chairs in Conference Hall.
"I suppose you wish to know something about the places you visit, ladies
and gentlemen," said Lord Tremlyn, rising before them, and bowing at the
applause with which he was heartily greeted. "This is Surat, a hundred and
sixty miles north of Bombay, on the Tapti River, which you may spell with a
double e at the end if you prefer. It has a population of a hundred
and ten thousand. It extends about a mile along this river, with the
government buildings in the centre.
"The streets are well paved, and the houses are packed very closely
together. There are four very handsome Mohammedan mosques here, so our
friend the general will have a place to go to on our Friday." The Mussulman
bowed, and gave the speaker one of his prettiest smiles. "The Parsees, of
whom a few families own half the place, are prominent in business, as in
Bombay; and they supply the most skilful mechanics, the liveliest clerks,
and the quickest boys in the schools. They have two fire-temples here. The
Hindus, especially the Buniahs and the Jains, are as prominent as in
Bombay. The city was founded before 1512; for then it was burned by the
Portuguese, who did it again eighteen years later.
"It had a very extensive commerce in its earlier years, and flourished on
its cotton trade during the American war. In 1811 it had a population of
two hundred and fifty thousand; but five and thirty years later it had less
than one-third of that; but has gained somewhat up to the present time.
Nearly a hundred years ago it was the most populous city of India. But I do
not propose to exhaust the subject, and now you may see for yourselves."
His lordship and the Hindu gentleman, since their liberality had been
whispered through the ship, were exceedingly popular, and both were warmly
applauded whenever they opened their mouths. The party found enough to
occupy their attention till the ship came to anchor, with its brass band in
full blast, off the public buildings. A steam-launch came off for the
passengers; for the hosts had written to every place they were to visit,
and carriages were in readiness for them when they landed.
They rode over the town after a collation at a clubhouse, and saw all that
was to be seen. They were quartered for the night at private residences,
and there was almost a struggle to know who should receive them.
                                 CHAPTER XXIV
                  THE RECEPTION OF THE MAHARAJAH AT BARODA
India has nearly twenty thousand miles of railroads open and in use, and
thousands more in process of construction. As in England, they are
invariably called "railways." They do not have baggage, but it is
"luggage;" a baggage-car is unknown, for they call it a "van;" and the
conductor is the "guard." Our travellers had become accustomed to these
terms, and many others, in England, and now used them very familiarly.
Early rising is hardly a virtue in India; for he who sleeps after six in
the morning loses the best part of the day, especially in the hot season.
The tourists were up before this hour, and had coffee wherever they were.
They had been treated with the utmost kindness and consideration, and their
hosts could not do enough for them. They were conveyed to the railway
station by them, and there found his lordship with a plan of a number of
carriages--they are not cars there. On this plan he had placed, with the
assistance of the commander, the names of the entire party.
They were to leave at seven; for it is pleasanter to travel early in the
morning than later in the day, and the train was all ready. They were not a
little astonished when they were introduced to their quarters in the
vehicles, to find them quite as luxurious as a Pullman, though they were
constructed on a different plan, and were wanting in some of the
conveniences of the American palace-car, though better adapted to the
climate of the country.
Each carriage contained but two compartments; but they were suites of rooms
on a small scale. The principal one was of good size, and on one side was
cushioned to the ceiling, so that being "knocked about" did not imperil the
traveller's bones and flesh. Against this stuffed partition was a low
couch, which could be made up as a bed at night, or used as a reclining
sofa by day.
Over it was a swinging couch suspended by straps, which could be folded up,
or be entirely removed, and formed a couch like the one below it. On the
other side of the apartment was a toilet-room, with all conveniences
required for washing and other purposes, including a water-cooler. In this
compartment the traveller takes his servant, and often a cook, for the
valet cannot meddle with culinary matters; and they sleep on the floor
wherever they can find a place. A reasonable additional price is charged
for accommodations in this luxurious style.
The journey to Baroda would occupy hardly more than three hours, and these
elaborate arrangements were scarcely necessary for the time they were to be
used; but the members of the party looked upon them with especial interest
in connection with the long travel to Lahore, and that which was to follow
to Calcutta, though they were to break the journey several times on the
way.
The "Big Four" had a compartment to themselves, with the two servants,
Sayad and Moro, who proved to be such good fellows that the boys liked them
very much. Sir Modava had managed to dismiss more than half of the
attendants furnished at first, for all the party declared that such a mob
of them was a nuisance; and the others had overcome their repugnance to
serving more than one person in the face of dismissal, for their
perquisites had already been considerable as they valued money.
"This isn't bad for a haythen counthry," said Felix, as he stretched
himself on the lower couch. "We'll git to Calcutty widout breakin' ahl the
bones in our bodies."
"This is vastly better than anything I expected to find here," replied
Louis, as he pushed his crony over against the partition, and lay down at
his side.
"But where do the elephants and the tigers come in?" asked Scott, as he
called upon Moro to "shine" his shoes. "I haven't seen an elephant since I
came here."
"Elephants are not worked in this country," added Morris. "The Moguls use
them when they want to go in state, and sometimes when they go hunting
tigers; and then the big beast gets most of the hard scratches."
"But the elephant can take care of himself when the mahout allows him to do
so," argued Scott.
"Is the mahout his schnout?" asked Felix.
"You know better than that, Flix. The mahout is the fellow that sits on the
elephant's neck and conducts him. He is the driver," replied Morris.
"Is he afeerd of schnakes?"
"He needn't be, perched on the top of the pachyderm," answered Scott.
"Who is he? Oi've not been introjuced to 'm."
"Are you going among elephants, Flix, and don't know what a pachyderm is?"
demanded Scott.
"Oi see, it's the elephant, and ye's call him so bekase he carries his pack
on his bachk; and 'pon me worrud that's the roight place to carry it."
"I wonder if we are to have any hunting out here where we are going,"
suggested Scott. "How is it, Louis? You are in the ring with the Grand
Moguls."
"Sir Modava told me that the Maharajah whom we shall visit at Baroda is a
great sportsman, and always treats his guests to a hunt," answered Louis.
"Is it after schnakes?"
"No; but after tigers."
"But I want to hunt some schnakes; I'd loike to bring down a good-soized
cobry," said Felix, rising from his reclining posture.
"No, you wouldn't, Flix," sneered Scott. "If you saw a cobry, you would run
till you got back to Ireland."
"Is'ht me! Wud I roon from a cobry? Not mooch! Ain't I a lineal dayscindant
of St. Patrick?--long life to him! And didn't he dhrive all the schnakes
and toads out of the ould counthree! Jisht show me a cobry, and thin see me
roon!"
Before the Milesian could tell how he intended to kill the cobra if he saw
one, the train stopped; and a moment later Sir Modava, the commander, and
Mrs. Belgrade appeared at the door.
"We have come to make things a little more social," said the Hindu
gentleman as they entered the compartment; and the servants brought stools
from the toilet-room, so that all were seated, making quite a family group.
"Are there any snakes where we are going, Sir Modava?" asked Felix, before
any one else had a chance to speak. "I am spoiling for a fight with a
cobra;" and he came back to plain English, which he could use as well as
any one.
"Plenty of them, Mr. McGavonty," replied the East Indian. "You will not get
badly spoiled before you fall in with all you will wish to see."
"Then I will bag some of them," added Felix.
"No, you won't, Flix; they will be more likely to bag you," rallied Scott.
"But I am in earnest," persisted the Milesian. "I have seen plenty of them
in Bombay; and upon my word and honor, I don't feel at all afraid of them.
One of them might hit me when I was not looking, for they don't play fair;
but I shall be on the watch for them, and I'll take my chance."
"But, Sir Modava, do you really dare to go out where there are cobras?"
asked Mrs. Belgrave, looking at her son.
"Certainly we do; we don't think anything at all about them."
"But you are in danger all the time."
"Of course it is possible that one may be bitten when a snake comes upon
him unawares. The deaths from snakes and wild animals in all India averages
annually twenty-two thousand. About a thousand are killed by tigers. Of a
hundred and fifty kinds of snakes, only about twenty are poisonous. The
deaths from snakes is one in 13,070; and the chance of being bitten is very
small."
"I am afraid your figures lie, Sir Modava," said Captain Ringgold, with a
pleasant laugh. "Millions of the people live in cities and large towns
where there isn't a snake of any kind."
"Quite true, and, to some extent, the figures do lie; but there are plenty
of cobras and other snakes in parts of Bombay, and the figures are not so
false as you think, Captain," replied Sir Modava. "But I forget that I was
sent here for a purpose by Lord Tremlyn. I am to tell you something about
the Mahrattas, which is the name of the people who inhabited the region
north of us. They have a long history which I have not time to review, but
they have been prominent in the earlier affairs of India. They have always
been a warlike people, and wrested the country from the Mogul emperor,
sometimes called the Grand Mogul, and made themselves a powerful people.
"The present maharajah rules over the most extensive kingdom of any native
prince. He is a Rajput, which is the aristocracy of the Mahrattas. He is
the most powerful of the Indian rulers, and one of the most hospitable. I
