present myself as Lieutenant Sterling of the Ninth Ohio Infantry."

"You have had a hard march from the pike so far."

"I have; the toughest time I ever had in my life, and I have seen some
deep mud before," replied Lieutenant Sterling. "Without your timely
aid, my command would all have been prisoners, and the wagons been in
possession of the enemy. But I am bewildered at the manner in which you
have done this thing. I did not see your force till you marched out on
the meadow. I heard a number of rifle-cracks, as I judged they were,
but I did not see a man."

"It was wholly done by a volunteer company of riflemen, attached to my
platoon for this occasion."

"I saw the enemy fall when they started to march over here, and after
they took to the stream; but I could not make out the force that fired
the shots. There must have been a hundred of them."

"Only thirty of them; but I believe they did not waste a shot," replied
Deck. "Will you oblige me by giving me the date of your commission?"

"Whatever the date of my commission, I shall cheerfully resign the
command to you; for you have a larger force than mine, and you have
fought the battle here that saved me, though you must have been
outnumbered by the enemy. My commission bears date Dec. 27."

"I was commissioned two weeks earlier than that."

"Then you rank me, and I am very glad that it is so," answered
Lieutenant Sterling; and he proceeded to inform his command of the
fact, for all of them had been ordered to suspend work.

"Do you happen to know what any of your wagons contain?" asked Deck,
who was ready to address himself to the task of moving the wagons to
the forest road.

"They are loaded for the most part with rations for the troops, and
grain for the horses and mules, with some general supplies."

"Do you know if there is any rope among the supplies?"

"The quartermaster-sergeant can answer that question better than I
can," replied the officer.

"Plenty of it, Lieutenant," replied this man. "It is in the first wagon
in the line."

"Bring out at least a hundred feet of inch-rope," added Deck. "You were
not moving the wagons to the nearest hard ground."

"My aim was to get them to a road indicated on the map over in that
direction," replied Lieutenant Sterling, pointing over towards the one
by which the Riverlawns had come from Jamestown. "According to the
scale on my map it is about two miles over there."

"That is very true; but, according to the fact, it is less than a third
of a mile to the woods where we came upon the meadow."

"But it would take me longer to cut a road through the woods to the
road than it would to wallow through the mud to the road."

"But there is a by-road through the woods to the main road."

"I am a total stranger here, and I did not know there was even a path
through the woods," added the lieutenant from Ohio, as the
quartermaster-sergeant rolled the rope out of the wagon.

Deck called his men, who had been thoroughly rested by their stay in
the woods, whether they needed it or not. The long rope was uncoiled;
and Life was directed to make the two ends of it fast to the end of the
pole, and pass it out through the three pairs of mules. Sixty men were
detailed to man the rope in two lines. This required a part of the
escort, and the rest of it were ordered to stand by the wheels. The
negro driver of the first wagon was told by Life to go to the rear end
and push; but this was done only to get him out of the way, for his
brutality had disgusted both the lieutenant and the sergeant, as both
of them believed in kindness to animals. They had seen the beatings
bestowed on the animals before; and Deck, looking through his glass,
was satisfied that the mules did not pull a pound under the beating.
Perhaps they were disgusted with the failure of their efforts to move
the wagon, as well as by the blows heaped upon them.

Life patted them on the neck, and coaxed them, and he certainly
succeeded in bringing them to a good-natured condition of mind.

"Now, boys, straighten out them ropes!" shouted Life to the soldiers
who manned them. "Pull steady for all you're wuth! Now, my beauties!
Hi! now! Come, my beauties!" said he, taking the nigh head leader by
the head, and leading him along.

To the astonishment of the men looking on, this mule made a flying leap
nearly out of his harness, and then pulled as steadily as a
well-trained horse; and the rest of the team followed his example. Life
seemed to have some hypnotic power over a horse, and it appeared that
he had the same influence over the mules. The men tugged at the rope,
and the wagon was hauled out of the mire.

"Keep it moving!" shouted Deck. "If you stop, it will mire again. Keep
it a-going!"

The men seemed to regard the work as a sort of enjoyable farce; and
they cheered each other along, and some of them took to singing. They
did not seem to be exerting all their strength, but the wagon moved
along at quite a lively pace. If they had stopped two minutes, the
wheels would have sunk down into the mud.

    "John Brown's wagon got stuck in the mud,
    And we pull it through the black miry flood,
      As we go marching on,"

sang the soldiers; and in a few minutes more they landed the first of
the wagon-train high and dry in the by-road.

Here one of the riflemen was waiting for the lieutenant, being a
messenger from Butters.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE FLAG OF TRUCE ON THE MEADOW


The soldiers thought it was nothing but amusement to drag the wagon out
of the mud and haul it to the woods. Sixty men and six mules made
comparatively easy work of it. It was nearly dinner-time, and Deck had
ordered the meal to be served on the meadow to those that remained
there of the escort. During all this time the heavy guns had been
thundering in the vicinity of Logan's Cross Roads; and as the day
advanced the roar was perceptible nearer, indicating that the enemy had
been driven from the first field towards the south.

The men proceeded to eat their dinner from their haversacks, while the
quartermaster-sergeant had taken rations from the wagon for the portion
of the escort that had come over to the woods. As soon as Lieutenant
Lyon had given his attention to the needs of his men and horses, he
turned to receive the message of the rifleman. Life gave his personal
attention to the six mules that had come over, and they were supplied
with a very liberal feed of corn and oats.

"Lieutenant Butters directs me to report to you that the enemy are
returning across the meadow, flying a flag of truce at the head of the
column," said the rifleman when Deck indicated that he was ready to
hear him; and only a few minutes elapsed while he was giving his
orders.

"How many men are returning?" asked the lieutenant.

"They were too far off for us to count them; but we guessed there were
about sixty of them, for they must have lost at least forty in killed
and wounded, to say nothing of the latter who were not disabled.
Lieutenant Butters wants to know what to do about the flag of truce."

"How far off are they now?" asked Deck.

"They were some distance beyond the stream when I left, about half an
hour ago."

"Return to Lieutenant Butters; tell him I will be with him very soon,
and ask him to send half his men, good strong fellows, to assist in
getting the wagons out of the mire," replied Deck; and the rifleman
left in obedience to the order.

The men and the animals were all busy with their dinner, and the
presence of the lieutenant was no longer necessary for a time. He spoke
to his orderly sergeant, who was eating his dinner with the mules, and
started for the point, eating the contents of his haversack on the way.
On his arrival he found Butters engaged in selecting the men to send
over to the assistance of the cavalrymen.

"Gittin' wagons out of the mud ain't exactly the work for
sharpshooters," growled Butters as Deck approached him. "But I have
called for volunteers."

"It is the work of soldiers to do whatever is to be done," replied the
cavalry officer, who was not pleased with the growl, or the tone in
which it had been made.

"It is not exactly the work of sharpshooters to work in the mud,"
returned Butters, apparently unwilling to have his men ordered away
from his immediate command.

"You are volunteers; and if you object to obeying my orders, you may
march your men back to Millersville," replied Lieutenant Lyon with
dignity enough for a major-general.

"Do you mean to send us back?" demanded Butters angrily.

Deck saw that, from the first, the lieutenant in command of the
riflemen was afflicted with an attack of the "big head," and considered
himself as the practical superior of the young officer who was his
military superior by the order of the major commanding. The cavalry
officer was not "puffed up" by his position, but he felt the necessity
of maintaining his dignity as the chief of the entire force on the
ground.

"I do not send you back, but I give you permission to retire from the
field," added Deck.

"I should like to ask who has done all the work that has been done in
this place?" demanded Butters.

"I admit that your men have done the most of it," answered the
lieutenant, when the entire thirty riflemen had gathered near to hear
the dispute; "but if you are not willing to obey my orders, I can get
along better without you than with you. If you desire to retire from
the field, I have nothing more to say."

"No! no! no!" shouted half the men.

"You can do as you please, Lieutenant Butters," added Deck, when he
realized that a majority of the riflemen were with him.

They had seen Deck in the thickest of the fight at the hill, and heard
all about his conduct in other actions from the members of the company
with whom they had fraternized at the jail, and it is not stating it
too strongly to say, in figurative terms, that he was the idol of the
Riverlawn Cavalry.

"I was calling for volunteers, and meant to obey your order, Lieutenant
Lyon," said Butters.

"But you objected to it, and there is no emergency in the present
situation."

"Volunteers to work in the medder, walk over to my right!" ordered the
lieutenant of the riflemen, though with very ill grace.

Deck's ideas of discipline were of the severe order, and it was against
his principles to call for volunteers for any ordinary service, though
proper enough for that of a desperate nature; for it was his opinion
that soldiers should obey orders without any question, and he was on
the point of countermanding the call, when every one of the riflemen
rushed over to the side indicated.

"Lieutenant Butters, you will detail fifteen men for duty in connection
with the cavalry, and send them over to the end of the by-road," said
Deck in his usual quiet tones; and turning on his heel without another
word, returned to his men, finishing his dinner on the way.

He heard some rather strong talk before he passed out of earshot, and
it was plain the riflemen were giving their officer some points in
military discipline. Not a word was said about the enemy; for Deck saw
that they were still at a considerable distance beyond the creek, and
he intended to return as soon as he had started his force for the other
wagons. The fifteen volunteers promptly appeared. The removal of the
wagons from the meadow was given in charge of Sergeant Knox, and Deck
went again to the point where Butters was waiting for him.

"I reckon I was wrong in the little muss we had a while ago; but I'm
ready to apologize for it," said the commander of the riflemen. "I
hain't got used to strict military discipline; but I shall be all right
after this."

"It isn't necessary to say anything more about that matter," replied
Deck. "The Confederates that you defeated so handsomely have reached
the stream; they are still showing the white flag."

"I reckon they are in a bad way; but I don't see what they come back
for," added Butters, pleased to find that the lieutenant had nothing
more to say about his insubordination.

"Let your men take their rifles and follow me," added Deck, as he began
to descend the slope to the meadow.

"Hallo! Hallo!" shouted a voice in the direction of the by-road.

"That's a man in uniform," said Butters, as he discovered the person.

The cavalry lieutenant reascended the bank, and saw the individual in
uniform. Without saying anything he hastened towards him.

"I am exceedingly glad to see you, Captain Woodbine," he said, as the
aide-de-camp extended his hand to him. "I am greatly in need of advice
from a person of your experience."

"But you seem to have done exceedingly well without any advice so far;
for the sentinel in the road informed me that you had saved the
wagon-train, had defeated a company of Confederate cavalry, and brought
one of the vehicles to the hard ground by an expedient of your own,"
continued Captain Woodbine, still shaking the hand of the lieutenant.
"I see that boys sometimes become men of experience all at once, when
an emergency is presented to them."

"I have done what I could here," replied Deck, studying the soil under
his feet.

"With twenty years' experience no one could have done better," said the
captain heartily; "and not many could have done so well. But I suppose
you would like to learn something about the battle which is still in
progress, though the enemy have been driven a considerable distance to
the southward."

"We have been hearing the heavy guns here since we reached the meadow,
and I should be very glad to know the result, for I hope our squadron
will have some hand in the fight," replied Deck, looking with interest
into the face of the visitor.

"You have already had some hand in it, for you have rendered one
company of Confederate cavalry hors de combat, and saved that
supply-train; and the general has had some anxiety about it, for it
would be a godsend to the enemy, half starved as they are. Thus you
have rendered a double service to our army. But what are you doing over
here?"

"I will show you in a few minutes," answered Deck; and he gave a brief
account of the action with the enemy in the meadow and in the creek,
and their final flight to the north. "I don't understand why they are
coming back under a flag of truce."

"I understand it very well. If they had gone as far as the woods you
see about a mile beyond the creek, they would have come on the flank of
our army; and very likely they were fired upon, and compelled to
retire, for the battle is still raging in and beyond that wood."

"I conclude that they want to surrender; and sixty prisoners of war,
with their wounded, would be an encumbrance to me," added Deck, as they
reached the border of the meadow.

"What were you about to do when I came, Lieutenant?" inquired the
captain.

"I was going out to the spot by the stream where the bearers of the
flag have halted."

"Can't the man in command of the riflemen do that?"

"I would not trust him with such business," replied Deck. "He is a good
enough sort of man, but he is troubled to some extent with the malady
called the 'big head,' and he is an ignorant fellow, and his greatest
virtue is his skill with his rifle."

The aide-de-camp went to as open a place as he could find, waved his
cap over his head, and then beckoned vigorously for the enemy's
cavalrymen to come to the wood. He repeated the sign several times, and
then they crossed the stream and moved towards the point.

"That's all right," continued Captain Woodbine, as he took the
lieutenant by the arm, and conducted him out of the hearing of the
riflemen. "This matter is delaying me; but I think we can manage it. I
have received a messenger from the general, who was the bearer of a
letter, hastily written with a pencil on the field, to the effect that
the enemy has been beaten, and are falling back. He believes that it
will be a rout before night; and the First Kentucky Cavalry has been
sent over here to harass the defeated army of Zollicoffer, who was
killed on the field."

"That is all good news," said Deck.

"But the end has not come yet. I was sent over here on account of my
knowledge of the country, to convey the general's orders to such
commanders as I might meet; and while I am delaying here I am afraid
the Kentucky regiment will pass the head of the by-road, and I shall
fail to see the commander."

"But I can send one of these riflemen to the main road, with a written
order to await the arrival of the regiment, and direct the force to
wait," suggested Deck.

"Call up the messenger," added the captain, as he proceeded to write
the order in his memorandum-book; and it was sent by the mounted
rifleman.

"The general feared that a flanking force might have been sent over by
Zollicoffer by this road; and that is the reason that I asked the
general for the use of your squadron. He particularly charged me to
help along the wagon-train if it was not already captured, as it
certainly would have been if the lieutenant commanding the escort had
not taken to the meadow. Now I am in haste to get your squadron and the
rest of your regiment, for you belong to it, in a position where this
force will be available in checking the retreat of the enemy, and you
may have more fighting to do before night, or in the evening."

At this moment Lieutenant Sterling of the train escort touched his cap
to his senior in rank, and reported that the wagons had all been hauled
to the woods, and were in the by-road.

"How many men have you, Lieutenant?" asked the captain.

The chief of the escort looked at Deck, and did not answer at once.




CHAPTER XIX

THE RIVERLAWN CAVALRY ON THE FLANK


The aide-de-camp was a stranger to Lieutenant Sterling, who therefore
hesitated to answer such a question; but Deck immediately introduced
him to the staff-officer, adding that he had saved the wagon-train from
the enemy by taking to the meadow, and had brought it over a mile
through the mire.

"You have done well, Lieutenant Sterling, and I will mention the matter
to the general," said the captain.

"Thank you, Captain Woodbine. I have forty men, besides the
quartermaster-sergeant and thirteen mule-drivers," added the chief of
the escort very respectfully.

"You are a commissioned officer?"

"I am, Captain."

"You may retire, but remain within call."

"The presence of this officer solves the difficulty," continued the
aide-de-camp. "He has to conduct his wagons within our lines, and he
can take charge of the prisoners after you have disarmed them. They do
not seem to be disposed to fight, and the escort is sufficient. They
will be here in a very short time. Lieutenant Sterling!" he called.

This officer hastened back to the point, and saluted the captain; and
this time he noticed the gold cord of a staff-officer on the sides of
his trousers, which had been concealed before by a clump of bushes in
which he stood. He had been an officer in the regular army, a West
Pointer, who had resigned in "piping times of peace."

"I have to assign you to an important duty in addition to your present
service, and I have no doubt you will perform it as well as you have
the conduct of the wagon-train," said Captain Woodbine.

"I should certainly have been captured if Lieutenant Lyon had not
fought and beaten the enemy's cavalry," replied the chief of the
escort.

"It would not have been your fault if you had been. What is left of the
enemy will be placed in your charge, and you will march them to our
lines beyond Jamestown. They will be disarmed as soon as they come in,"
said the captain.

Lieutenant Sterling was then sent over to the road with a message to
Life Knox to march the cavalry, dismounted, to the point, and to bring
over his own men, except a guard for the wagons and the horses. They
were on the ground as soon as the Confederates reached the forest. They
came on foot, and left the horses where they had been abandoned.

An orderly sergeant, as he appeared to be from the chevrons on his arm,
advanced and asked for the commanding officer; and Deck was pointed out
by the riflemen, as his men ascended the bank to the solid ground. He
presented himself to the lieutenant, and saluted.

"I am Sergeant Pfeffer, and we desire to surrender, for we can do
nothing more," said he.

"Where are all your commissioned officers?" asked Deck.

"They are all killed or badly wounded," answered the sergeant.

"How many men have you now?"

"Fifty-eight; and we started out early this morning with a full
company," returned Pfeffer, with no little bitterness in his tones.

"You will march your men in single file along this bank, and deposit
your arms of all kinds on the ground," said Lieutenant Lyon.

He directed Life to supervise the ceremony, sending the weapons by his
own men and the riflemen to the wagons; and the quartermaster-sergeant
was directed to load them in the vehicles. Deck hurried the business,
for the aide-de-camp was impatient at the delay. As soon as this duty
had been accomplished, and Lieutenant Sterling was thus in condition to
handle the prisoners, Deck ordered the cavalrymen and the riflemen to
return to the road, mount their horses, and form in the usual order, in
column, under the command of Sergeant Knox.

Captain Woodbine instructed Lieutenant Sterling to have the prisoners,
under a guard of his own men, bring in the wounded, bury the dead, and
lead their horses to the forest. He was told to be very cautious, and
to shoot any prisoner who attempted to escape or make any serious
trouble. With forty men, armed with muskets of the best quality, the
captain declared that he could control the greater number of prisoners.

The aide-de-camp, who may take command of any body of troops in the
field if he finds it advisable to so, and Lieutenant Lyon hastened to
their horses, and mounted, and the column moved up the road. Lieutenant
Sterling proved himself to be a man of energy and determination. He
drew up his command around the prisoners, and then addressed them. He
told them what they were to do, and warned them that any man who
attempted to escape, or offered any opposition to his orders, would be
summarily shot.

Forming the remains of the company by fours, with his own men on the
flanks, he marched them to the stream. They were first required to
dispose of the dead and wounded, who numbered over forty, and to do
what they could to aid the latter. Quite a number of them who had not
been disabled had been hit and more or less injured, and the lieutenant
had excused the worst cases from duty.

The horses were all led to the point, and the wounded who were able to
ride them were mounted. It was late in the afternoon when the
cumbersome column was ready to move. Lieutenant Sterling's infantry had
worked hard all day, and were considerably fatigued by their hard labor
at the wheels of the wagons. He mounted the best horse he could find,
and gave a steed to each of his men. A horse was also given to each
wounded prisoner able to ride him; but the others were required to go
on foot, for the officer would not trust them with horses for fear they
might attempt to escape.

The prisoners had the head of the column, the mounted ones in their
rear, with a file of the mounted infantry on each flank of them. The
wagons completed the column, with guards on each side of them, mounted
like the others. Each vehicle had a led horse behind it; for there were
more of them than of prisoners. The lieutenant, mindful of the
instructions of Captain Woodbine, kept a careful watch over his charge,
riding up and down the line on both sides. In due time, though not
until in the evening, he delivered the wagon-train to the chief
quartermaster at the camp, and the prisoners to the provost marshal. He
was highly commended later for his efficient service.

It would require a whole volume to give the details of the battle, as
it began in the early morning, and continued with more or less
intensity till evening, when the enemy were driven back to their
intrenchments on the Cumberland River. General Thomas cannonaded till
dark, and he intended to storm the works the next morning.

Lieutenant Lyon's command, accompanied by Captain Woodbine, reached the
Millersville Road in the middle of the afternoon, where they found a
portion of the First Kentucky Cavalry waiting for them, detained there
by the written order of the aide-de-camp. The column was reformed, and
marched with all haste for a distance of two miles, where the captain
turned into another by-road, made by teams hauling out wood from the
forest, and running parallel to the one by which the force had reached
the meadow, and nearly to the pike.

At a point on this road Captain Woodbine had sent the companies in
advance of the First Kentucky, by what looked like a cattle-path, to a
position in the woods where they might intercept the retreating enemy,
or at least annoy them. The Confederates were moving to the south by
the pike and each side of it, the infantry passing through the miry
region. The Riverlawn portion continued on the same road till they came
in sight of the intrenchments on the north side of the Cumberland,
where the rear of Major Lyon's command was drawn up.

At this time in the afternoon no considerable portion of the enemy had
advanced near their intrenchments, and there appeared to be nothing for
the squadron to do. The major wanted to know what his son had been
doing; and Deck gave him a brief account of his operations at the
meadow. Not a man had been lost in the affair, which had been fought by
the sharpshooters behind the trees near the point. The artillery's guns
were still booming on the air in the distance.

Captain Woodbine had chosen the position to be occupied by the
squadron; and he had sent the remainder of the regiment to which it
nominally belonged to a point farther north, for reasons of his own
which he did not explain, but probably he desired to keep the
Riverlawns by themselves.

The riflemen were now reunited; and while Deck was telling his story to
his father, Captain Woodbine conducted the body, now under the command
of Captain Ripley, from the hill behind which the two companies of
cavalry were stationed, so that they could not be seen by the enemy, to
another hill which commanded the pike and the meadow. Here he posted
them, and gave the commander his orders.

From this height the sharpshooters could harass the enemy retreating
over the pike, and also the two regiments of infantry retiring over the
low ground, the first of which was within twenty rods of the hill. It
was evident that it was marching towards ground to the west of the
hill, where the ascent was less difficult. They were within range of
the riflemen, and the fight in this section of the field was extremely
likely to begin here. But the First Kentucky Cavalry was posted near
them, and would be obliged to bear the brunt of it.

Captain Woodbine went to these troopers, and moved them to a more
favorable position, where they could support the sharpshooters; for
they were nearly, if not quite, as efficient as a battery would have
been in the same place. Directly in front of the Riverlawn Cavalry was
a hill overlooking the intrenchments of the enemy, which sheltered the
command from the guns if they were fired in that direction; and the
aide-de-camp rode his horse up the declivity, which was partially
covered with trees.

Then he dismounted, hitched his horse, and placed himself behind a
tree, where he could see all the force he had taken under his command,
and all the approaches of the enemy who were hurrying down the pike and
on both sides of it. Just then he wished he had half a dozen regiments
of troops, for he believed that with a sufficient force he could cut
off the retreat of the enemy to his works.

He had five companies of cavalry and fifty-six riflemen, less than a
single regiment; and he could only impede, but not check, the retreat.
Major Lyon surveyed the country around from all points; and when he saw
the captain on the hill, he ascended it in order to make a startling
proposition to him.

"We are within half a mile of the enemy's intrenchments, Captain
Woodbine," the major began.

"Hardly as near as that, Major," replied the aide-de-camp.

"A quarter of a mile would make no difference with my plan."

"Ah, then you have a plan?" replied the captain with a smile.

"I am not an engineer, as I believe you are; but I have been looking
over those earthworks. I see a place where I believe I could ride my
squadron over them; and I presume there is not a large force there, for
it has the river on one side. We have something less than six hundred
men, all mounted, and I fancy we could ride over the artillerymen it
contains."

"I don't believe you could get into the works, in the first place,"
returned the captain with a laugh. "If you did get in, you would find
yourself outnumbered two to one."

"I should be willing to feel of them, at any rate," added the major.

"Do you suppose a general with ability enough to command an army of
five or six thousand men would be so stupid as to march from his
intrenchments, and, going away ten miles to attack another army, would
leave his base of retreat insufficiently manned?"

"I supposed they would have been sending up re-enforcements to the
battle-field all day; and they could not have done that without
reducing greatly the number in the works. However, I am not a very
experienced soldier, Captain Woodbine, and I am willing to admit that I
should not have undertaken the enterprise on my own responsibility,"
replied the major.

"Of course it may be possible that the garrison within the fort has
been reduced to a number equal, or even less, than your force; but I
should say it would be foolhardy in the extreme to make such a venture
without a certain knowledge of the extent of the force behind the
breastworks. But the riflemen have opened on the regiment nearest to
them," added the captain, as the crack of a rifle was heard on the
other hill, not more than a quarter of a mile distant.

Other shots followed in rapid succession; but they were fired one at a
time, in accordance with Captain Ripley's tactics.




CHAPTER XX

THE FLOWING TIDE OF THE ENEMY'S RETREAT


Both of the officers on the hill brought their field-glasses to their
eyes, and directed them to the regiment in the meadow, which was having
more difficulty in advancing than before; for near the higher ground
the cattle had cut up the sod much more than farther off. The men
scattered about more in their efforts to avoid the soft places.

"Those men fire with remarkable precision," said Captain Woodbine. "A
soldier drops at every shot they fire, and they discharge their rifles
at the rate of at least ten shots a minute."

"They can't stand that long," added the major.

As he spoke, the regiment broke into a run for the woods. They gave no
further attention to the picking of their way, and struggled in the
mire towards the high ground; but the merciless riflemen did not
suspend their fire, and the soldiers continued to fall as the regiment
advanced. In a few minutes it looked as though half the first company
had fallen, either killed or wounded.

The second company, and those in the rear of it, faced about, and
retreated; and, having a better sod than those nearer the hill, they
ran with all the speed they could command, though some of them sank
down in the mire, and were pulled out by their companions. When they
had fallen back out of rifle-range, they directed their flight towards
the pike.

The regiment in the rear halted when they saw the flight of the one in
front of it. It was too far off for accurate firing. The men seemed to
be appalled at the flight of the other regiment; and through their
glasses the two officers could see that the commanding officer was
making a speech to his men, but neither of them could see the extent of
the casualties of the retreating command.

Doubtless the colonel of the regiment, ashamed of the conduct of the
fleeing infantry, was rallying his men for the advance; for presently
it resumed its march. But at that moment a new factor in the contest
was presented to the aide-de-camp. The roar of a heavy gun was heard in
the direction of the intrenchment, and both of the spectators on the
hill looked in that direction. A cloud of smoke rose in the air, and at
the same moment, almost, the explosion of a shell was seen on the
riflemen's hill. The branches of the trees were cut off and twisted,
and the sharpshooters rushed down the declivity as though their own
weapons had been turned against them.

"Those riflemen have probably never been in a battle before," said the
captain, apparently unmoved by the sight that greeted his eyes.

"I should hardly expect to see them stand up against that sort of
thing," added the major. "I never saw a shell explode before, and it
must be very trying to the nerves of an inexperienced soldier."

"He gets used to it after a time. But that shell must have killed or
wounded some of Captain Ripley's command, though neither shells nor
bullets are so destructive to human life as they appear to be at
first."

"I don't understand how that shell happened to be fired into the hill,
for they could not see into the meadow where so many have fallen," said
the major.

"The information was probably sent into the fort by some officer on
duty on the pike, near the earthworks, with an order to shell the
second hill. But I think you had better return to your command, for
your cavalry may be wanted at any time," suggested the captain.

"That colonel has rallied his men, and they are now marching very
steadily towards the higher land," said the major, as he rose from the
seat on a rock he had occupied.

"Ripley has done better than I expected, and he appears to have placed
his men again. No doubt the bursting of the shell so near them startled
his force, and the riflemen fled from impulse," continued the
staff-officer. "But he is a brave old man, at any rate; for he has
mounted to the highest point of the hill, and he is watching the fort
with all his eyes. It is a dangerous position, and I am afraid there
will be a military funeral soon at Millersville."

But he was shielded by a large tree on the summit of the hill in the
direction of the enemy, and was giving his whole attention to the
intrenchments. The captain was observing the regiment which was now
rapidly approaching high ground, though it had moved much farther from
the pike than the first.

The major had mounted his horse, and was about to rejoin his squadron.

Before he started, and when the approaching force was beginning to
mount the bank, the rifles were heard again, and the leading men of the
first company dropped from the bank. Not more than three or four shots
had been fired before a tremendous yell was heard coming from the
riflemen's hill, and the sharpshooters fled down the slope. It appeared
as though Captain Ripley had watched the fort for a purpose, and, when
he saw the flash of the great gun, had ordered his men to run, and they
had done so. They had no time to spare, but they had a second to spare
before the shell exploded.

[Illustration: "THE SHARPSHOOTERS RUSHED DOWN THE DECLIVITY."
Page 262.]

It did not appear that any one was hurt; at least, no one fell. The
captain observed the riflemen with the utmost intensity; and as soon as
the missile had spent its power, the men sprang part way up the hill,
and placed themselves behind the trees. The first company had obtained
a footing on the hard ground, and the first thing they did was to form
and march at the double-quick towards the hill from which the
death-dealing balls had come.

Major Lyon was a prudent as well as a brave man, and he galloped his
horse away from the spot with all decent celerity; for to remain there
another minute was almost certain death. The staff-officer was too old
a soldier to get excited at such a time, but he kept a tree between
himself and the approaching company of Confederates. The riflemen
opened before the company could fairly form; and, as the distance for
such riflemen was insignificant, a man fell with every rifle that was
fired.

The fall of these men in the first rank, every one of whom was dropped,
seemed to madden the men behind them, and they rushed forward on the
run; but Ripley's policy was most disastrous to them, for the second
rank of four soldiers fell, either killed or badly wounded. At this
time Major Lyon, in obedience to an order from Captain Woodbine, with
his entire squadron galloped upon the scene of action. Captain Gordon
charged into the first company of the regiment of infantry.

The first platoon, under Lieutenant Belthorpe, struck the head of the
column as it hastened forward to dislodge the sharpshooters, whose fire
was so destructive to them; and Lieutenant Lyon, with the second
platoon, took the company on the flank. This charge, so far as the
first company of the Confederates was concerned, threw the riflemen out
of the battle; for their bullets were in danger of bringing down some
of the blue as well as the gray.

Captain Ripley perceived this difficulty, and ordered his men, as
usual, by passing the word from mouth to mouth along his line, for his
men to give their attention to the second company of the enemy's
infantry, which had just begun to mount the bank from the low ground.
Colonel Wolford, in command of the First Kentucky Cavalry, was in
another part of the field, pursuing the retreating regiments in their
ten miles of flight from the hills, where the brunt of the action had
been fought; and Major Lyon was in charge of the detachment sent to
assist in flanking the enemy in this quarter.

The staff-officer had ordered up this cavalry. He had mounted his
horse, and given the order in person, going on the field in actual
command of the force, leading it to the point where the second company
were mounting the bank. Portions of the enemy's army had been well
drilled, though this could not be said of all; and General Crittenden
in his reports lamented the want of discipline in some of his
regiments. General Schoepf was more emphatic and decided in regard to
this same want of drill on the part of the Union mounted men. In the
report of a skirmish he says:--

"The cavalry under my command, as usual, behaved badly. They are a
nuisance, and the sooner they are disbanded the better.... Is there no
such thing as obtaining a regiment of reliable cavalry? Such a
regiment is indispensable with this brigade at this time. The absence
of such troops has kept me in the saddle until I am nearly worn down
with fatigue."
