He uttered a faint disclaimer, but she insisted.

"Do me a favor--a great favor," she said, persuasively, "and sing some
sweet Italian air, such as you must know."

"No, I don't sing Italian airs," he said.

"What then?"

"I can sing 'Sweet Marie.'"

"I am sure we shall all be glad to hear it. I sometimes sing a little
myself--just a tiny bit."

"I shall like much to hear you, signora."

"I shall feel very bashful about singing to an Italian gentleman. You
will laugh at me."

"No, no, I would not be so rude."

"Then perhaps I may. Our friends always insist upon hearing me."

So at an early period in the evening she sang one of her routine songs.

I watched the Count's face while she was singing. I was amused. At first
his expression was one of surprise. Then of pain, and it seemed to me of
annoyance. When Mrs. Wyman had completed the song she turned to him a
look of complacent inquiry. She was looking for a compliment.

"Didn't I do horribly?" she asked.

"Oh, no, no," answered the Count, vaguely.

"It must have seemed very bad to you."

"No, no--"

"Do you think it was passable?"

"Oh, signora, I never heard anything like it."

"Oh, you naughty flatterer," she said, smiling with delight. "I am sure
you don't mean it."

"Indeed I do."

I was sitting next the Disagreeable Woman.

"The Count has more brains than I thought," she said. "I quite agree
with him."

"That you never heard anything like it?" I queried, smiling.

"Yes."

"Miss Ruth," I said to the young woman from Macy's, "do you never sing?"

"I used to sing a little in my country home," she admitted.

"What, for instance?"

"I can sing 'Annie Laurie'."

"Nothing could be better. It is a general favorite. Won't you sing it
to-night?"

"But I cannot sing without an accompaniment," she said, shyly.

"I am not much of a musician, but I can play that."

With a little more persuasion I induced her to sing. She had a pleasant
voice, and while I cannot claim for her anything out of the common on
the score of musical talent, she rendered the song fairly well. All
seemed to enjoy it, except Mrs. Wyman, who said, in a sneering tone:

"That song is old as the hills."

"It may be so," I retorted, "but the best songs are old."

"It was very good," said the Count, who really seemed pleased.

This seemed to annoy the widow.

"You are very good-natured, Count, to compliment such a rustic
performance," she said.

"But, signora, I mean it."

"Well, let it pass! She did her best, poor thing!"

"She is a nice girl."

"Oh, Count, she is only a young woman from Macy's. She was born in the
country, and raised among cabbages and turnips."

He seemed puzzled, but evidently regarded Ruth with favor.

Meanwhile, Prof. Poppendorf had listened attentively to the song of the
maiden on whom he had fixed his choice.

"Mees Ruth, you sing beautiful!" he said.

Ruth Canby smiled.

"You are very kind, Prof. Poppendorf," she said, gratefully.

"I like your singing much better than Mrs. Wyman's."

"No. You mustn't say that. She sings airs from the opera."

"I like better your leetle song."

By this time Mrs. Wyman had succeeded in extracting a promise from the
Count to sing.

"Dr. Fenwick," she said, "can't you play the accompaniment for the
Count?"

"What is the song?"

"'Sweet Marie'."

"I will do my best. I am not professional."

So I played and the Count sang. He had a pleasant, sympathetic voice,
and we were pleased with his singing.

"Oh, how charming, Count!" said Mrs. Wyman; "I shall never dare to sing
before you again."

"Why not, signora."

"Because you are such a musical artist."

"Oh, no, no, signora!" he said, deprecatingly.

He was persuaded to sing again, and again he pleased his small audience.

"Miss Blagden, won't you favor us with a song?" asked Mrs. Wyman, in a
tone of mockery.

"Thank you," said the Disagreeable Woman, dryly. "There is so much
musical talent here, that I won't undertake to compete with those who
possess it."

"Prof. Poppendorf, don't you ever sing?" asked the widow, audaciously.

"I used to sing when I was young," answered the Professor, unexpectedly.

"Then do favor us!"

He seated himself at the piano, and sang a German drinking song, such as
in days gone by he had sung with Bismarck and his old comrades at the
university.

There was a rough vigor in his performance that was not unpleasant. No
one was more surprised than Mrs. Wyman at the outcome of what she had
meant as a joke.

"Really, Professor," said the Disagreeable Woman, "you are more
accomplished than I supposed. I like your song better than I did your
lecture."

Prof. Poppendorf removed his glasses, and we saw in his eyes a
suspicious moisture.

"Ah," he said, not appearing to hear the compliment, if it was a
compliment, "it brings back the old days. I have not sing that song
since I was at the university with Bismarck. There were twenty of us,
young students, who sang it together, and now they are almost all gone."

This ended the musical performances of the evening. After this, there
was conversation, and later Mrs. Gray provided ice-cream and cake. It
was Horton's ice-cream, and the plates were small, but we enjoyed it.

Before we parted, the Professor found himself sitting next to Ruth
Canby.

"Do you ever go to the theatre, fraulein?" he asked.

"Not often, Professor. I cannot go alone, and there is no one to take
me."

"I will take you, Mees Ruth."

The young woman from Macy's looked amazed. She had not dreamed of such
an invitation from him. Yet she was very fond of the stage, and she saw
no reason why she should not accept.

"You are very kind, Professor," she said. "I did not think you cared
for the theatre."

"I would like to go--with you," he said, gallantly.

"Then I will go."

"It will be like going with my grandfather," she thought.




CHAPTER X.

A RUSTIC ADMIRER.


Sunday was always a lonely day to me. In the country village, where I
knew everybody, I always looked forward to it as the pleasantest day of
the week. Here in the crowded city, I felt isolated from human sympathy.
I accustomed myself to attending church in the forenoon. In the
afternoon I took a walk or an excursion.

At the boarding-house even it was dull and less social than usual. Such
of the boarders as had friends near the city were able to absent
themselves after breakfast. Among the faces that I missed was that of
the Disagreeable Woman. Sometimes she appeared at breakfast; but never
at dinner or tea. Though she never indulged in conversation to any
extent, I think we all missed her.

One Sunday afternoon, soon after the gathering described in the last
chapter, I walked up Fifth Avenue to Central Park. It was a pleasant day
and many were out. Through the magnificent avenue I walked in a
leisurely way, and wondered idly how it would seem to own a residence in
this aristocratic street. I could not repress a feeling of envy when I
thought of the favored class who dwelt in the long line of palaces that
line the avenue. Their lives seemed far removed from that of a
struggling physician, who was in daily doubt how long he could maintain
his modest style of living in the crowded metropolis.

Arrived at Fifty-ninth street I sauntered toward the menagerie. This is
the favorite resort of children, and of young persons from the country.
Perhaps I, myself, might be classed among the latter. I did not care so
much, however, to observe the animals as the visitors. I had a hope that
I might see some one whom I knew.

At first I could see no familiar face. But presently I started, as my
glance fell on the short and somewhat plump figure of the young woman
from Macy's.

She was not alone. With her walked a tall, sun-burned young man, who was
evidently from the country. She leaned confidingly upon his arm, and her
face was radiant. He was evidently an old friend, perhaps a lover. He,
too, looked contented and happy. Were they lovers? It looked like it. If
so, the matrimonial plans of Prof. Poppendorf were doomed to
disappointment. Delicacy dictated my silent withdrawal, but I confess
that my curiosity was aroused, and I resolved to gratify it.

Accordingly I pressed forward and overtook the young woman from Macy's
and her escort. She looked up casually, and a little flush overspread
her face when she recognized me.

"Dr. Fenwick!" she said, impulsively.

I turned and lifted my hat.

"I am glad to meet you, Miss Canby!" I said.

At the same time I looked inquiringly at her escort.

"Stephen," she said, "this is Dr. Fenwick from our boarding-house."

"Proud to know you, sir," said the young man, offering his hand.

I shook it heartily.

"You have not mentioned your friend's name, Miss Canby," I said.

"Excuse me! I am very neglectful. This is Stephen Higgins from our town.
I used to go to school with him."

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Higgins."

"Same to you, sir."

"I suppose you are on a visit to the city, Mr. Higgins."

"Yes, sir. I came here to spend Sunday, and see Ruth."

"I presume you have been in the city before?"

"Not for five years. It's a pretty smart place. I'm so turned round that
I hardly know which way to turn."

"You will have a good guide in Miss Canby."

"In Ruth, yes."

"I wish I could go round with him all the time he is here, Dr. Fenwick,
but to-morrow I shall have to go back to my work at Macy's."

She gave a little sigh as she spoke.

"Do you intend to stay long, Mr. Higgins?"

"Only a day or two. It's pretty expensive stayin' in York."

"I want him to stay over till Tuesday, Dr. Fenwick. He can't see much if
he goes home to-morrow."

"If you could be with me, Ruth--"

"But I can't, so it's no use talking about it."

"Wouldn't Mr. Macy give you a day off?"

"If I could find him perhaps he would," she said, laughing.

"Why can't you find him? Isn't he at the store every day?"

"Mr. Macy is dead, Stephen."

"Then how can he keep store?" asked Stephen, bewildered.

"Somebody else runs it in his name?"

"Don't let me interfere with your plans," I said, feeling that perhaps I
might be in the way.

They both urged me to stay, and so I did.

By this time all the attractions of the menagerie had been seen, and I
proposed to walk to the lake.

"How would you like to live in the city, Mr. Higgins?" I asked.

"First rate, if I could find anything to do."

"What is your business at home?"

"I work on father's farm. Next year, as father's gettin' feeble, I may
take it on shares."

"That will be better, perhaps, than seeking a situation in the city."

"I should like to be here on account of Ruth," he said, wistfully.

She smiled and shook her head.

"There's nothing for me to do in the country," she said.

"I might find something for you to do," he said, eagerly.

Then I saw how it was, and felt inclined to help him.

"Do you like Macy's so well, then?" I asked.

"I don't know," she answered, thoughtfully, "I like to feel that I am
earning my living."

"You wouldn't need," commenced Stephen, but she checked him by a look.

"You might not like to part with the Professor," said I, mischievously.

Stephen took instant alarm.

"What Professor?" he asked.

"Professor Poppendorf. He is a German, a very learned man."

"And what have you got to do with the Professor, Ruth?" he asked,
jealously.

"Oh, you foolish boy!" she said. "You ought to see him."

"I don't want to see him."

"He is an old gentleman, most seventy, and wears green glasses."

Stephen looked relieved.

"By the way, did you have a pleasant evening with the Professor at the
theatre the other evening, Miss Canby?"

It was very reprehensible of me, I know, but I felt a little
mischievous.

"Did you go to the theatre with him, Ruth?" asked Stephen,
reproachfully.

"Yes, I am so fond of the theatre, you know, I could not resist the
temptation."

"What did you see?"

"I went to see Crane in the Senator. Where do you think we sat?" and
she laughed.

"I don't know."

"In the upper gallery. The idea of asking a lady to sit in the top of
the house!"

"The Professor is a German, and all Germans are frugal. I presume he
thought you would be perfectly satisfied. Did the Professor appear to
enjoy the play?"

"Very much. He did not always understand it, and asked me to explain it
to him. Now and then he burst into such a loud laugh that I felt quite
ashamed. Then I was glad that we were in the top gallery."

"When the play was over did he invite you to take an ice-cream at
Delmonico's or Maillard's?"

"No, but he invited me into a saloon to take a glass of lager."

Here she laughed again.

"Evidently the Professor is not a ladies' man. Did you accept the
beer?"

"As if I would!"

"Poor man! you deprived him of a pleasure."

"No, I did not. He left me on the sidewalk while he went in and took his
beer."

"I hope you won't go to the theatre with him again," said Stephen, in a
tone of dissatisfaction.

"You can rest quite easy, Stephen, I won't."

"What made him ask you to go?"

"You will have to ask him, Stephen. If you will come round to supper
this evening, I will introduce you to him. There will be plenty of room,
as some of our boarders are always away on Sunday."

Stephen felt a little bashful at first, but finally yielded to
persuasion and took his place at the table in the seat of the
Disagreeable Woman.

After seeing the Professor he got over his jealousy. The old German
scholar hardly suggested a young Lothario, and his appearance was not
calculated to excite jealousy. Prof. Poppendorf removed his goggles the
better to observe Ruth's friend, but did not appear to be disturbed.
That Ruth should prefer this young rustic to a man of his position and
attainments, would have seemed to him quite out of the range of
probability.




CHAPTER XI.

A POOR PATIENT.


I was accustomed to remain in my office till about four o'clock in the
afternoon waiting for possible patients. It was a long and weary wait,
and oftentimes not a caller rewarded me. I suppose it is the usual
fortune of young medical practitioners who are comparatively unknown.
When four o'clock came I went out for a walk. Generally my steps tended
to Sixth Avenue where there was some life and bustle.

I was compelled to practise the most rigid economy, but I could not deny
myself the luxury of an evening paper. I would buy either the Sun or
World, each of which cost but a penny. One little newsboy came to
know me, and generally lay in wait for me as I emerged from a side
street. He was a bright, attractive little boy of ten, whose name I
found to be Frank Mills. His clothing was well-worn but clean, and his
whole appearance was neat, so that I judged he had a good mother.

Usually Frank's manner was cheerful, but on the day succeeding my visit
to the Park I found he looked sober and his eyes looked red as if he had
been crying.

"What is the matter, Frank?" I asked.

"My sister is sick," he said, sadly.

"Is it an older sister?"

"Yes; she works at O'Neil's dry goods store. She has been sick two
days."

"What is the matter?"

"Mother thinks it is a fever."

"Have you called a doctor?"

"N--no," answered Frank.

"Why not?"

"We haven't any money to pay a doctor. We are very poor, and now that
sister isn't working I don't know how we shall get along. There is no
one to earn money except me, and I don't make more than thirty cents a
day."

"If I were rich, Frank, I would help you."

"I am sure you would, sir, for you look like a kind gentleman."

This simple tribute went to my heart. The boy felt that I was a friend,
and I determined that I would be one so far as I was able.

"Still I can do something for you. I am a doctor, and if you will take
me round to your house I will look at your sister and see if I can do
anything for her."

The boy's eyes lighted up with joy.

"Will you be so kind, sir? I will go with you now."

"Yes, Frank, the sooner the better."

I followed him for perhaps a quarter of a mile to a poor house situated
on one of the side streets leading down to the North River. The street
was shabby enough, and the crowd of young children playing about showed
that it was tenanted by poor families, rich in children if nothing else.

Frank stopped at one of these houses and opened the door into a dirty
hall.

"We live on the top floor," he said, "if you won't mind going up."

"I shall mind it no more than you, Frank," I said. "I am still a young
man."

We climbed three staircases, and stood on the upper landing.

"I'll go in and tell mother I have brought a doctor," said Frank. "Just
wait here a minute."

He opened a door and entered. He came out again almost immediately. He
was followed by a woman of perhaps forty, with a pleasant face, but
looking very sad.

"Welcome, doctor," she said. "Frank tells me you were kind enough to
offer us your services."

"Yes, I am glad to do what I can for you."

"This is my daughter. I feel very much worried about her."

The daughter lay on a bed in an inner room (there were but two). She was
pale and looked ill-nourished, but in spite of the delicacy of her
appearance, she was pretty.

"Alice, this is the doctor," said her mother. Alice opened her eyes
languidly, and tried to smile.

"Let me feel your pulse," I said.

The pulsations were slow and feeble.

The mother fixed her eyes upon me anxiously, and awaited my verdict.

"Your daughter is quite run down," I said. "She has very little
strength, but I do not find any positive indications of disease."

"You are right, no doubt, doctor," said the mother with a sigh. "She is
a delicate girl, and I am sure she was overworked."

"She is employed in a dry goods store, Frank tells me."

"Yes, she is at O'Neil's. They are very considerate there, but it is
hard to be standing all day."

"It would be hard for any one. I am a man and strong, but I don't think
I could endure it. She ought to have two weeks' rest, at least, before
returning to work."

"I am sure you are right, doctor," said Mrs. Mills, "but how can it be
managed? We have but two breadwinners, Frank and Alice. Frank, poor boy,
brings in all he can, but Alice earns six dollars a week. It is upon
that that we depend for our living. It is a hard thing to be poor,
doctor."

"Indeed it is," I answered.

"You speak as if you know something about it."

"I do. I am a young physician, with very little money, and few patients.
Life with me is a struggle, as it is with you."

I was well dressed--that is a necessity with a professional man, who
must keep up appearances--and this perhaps made it difficult for Mrs.
Mills to believe that I was really poor.

"What do you prescribe, doctor?"

"No medicines are needed. What your daughter needs most is strengthening
food--to begin with a little beef tea."

Mrs. Mills looked embarrassed. I understood her embarrassment. What I
ordered was simple enough; but where was the money to come from, to
supply the sick girl's needs?

"I can make some beef tea," she said, after a pause, "and some bread."

"It is just the thing," I said, cheerfully.

"Then you don't think she needs any medicine?"

"No."

There was still that anxious look on the mother's face. Alice was the
breadwinner, and she was sick. How were they to live?

An idea came to me.

"I will call again to-morrow morning," I said, cheerfully.

"You are very kind, doctor. I should like to pay you, but we are so
miserably poor."

"Don't let that trouble you for a moment. I can give you some of my
time, for of that I have plenty."




CHAPTER XII.

THE DISAGREEABLE WOMAN IN A NEW LIGHT.


I have said that I had an idea. The destitute condition of this poor
family weighed upon me, and excited my sympathy. With my scanty means I
could give them only advice, but could I not secure help from others.

Mrs. Gray, my landlady, would perhaps furnish a supply of food, but
though a good woman in the main she was not inclined to be charitable.
She was inclined to be suspicious of those who applied to her for help,
and I did not want to subject Mrs. Mills to any new sorrow or
mortification. Among my fellow boarders, I could not think of one to
whom I could apply, except--well, yes, except the Disagreeable Woman.
Under her cynical exterior I suspected there was a sympathetic heart,
though I believe that I alone gave her credit for it. I resolved to
speak to her about my poor patient.

As the reader already knows, I sat next to Miss Blagden at the table.
Toward the close of supper I said in a low voice: "If you will allow me,
Miss Blagden, I will walk with you a short distance after supper. I have
something to say to you."

She looked surprised, but answered promptly, "I shall be glad of your
company."

This was the most agreeable speech I had heard from her since our
acquaintance commenced.

Nothing more was said till I found myself walking by her side toward
Broadway.

"Now?" she said, expectantly.

"I am going to take a liberty," I said. "I am going to try to interest
you in a poor family. I of course know nothing of your means, but my own
are so limited that in spite of my profound sympathy I can only give my
medical services, while more is needed."

"Go on, doctor," she said, and there was unwonted kindness in her tone.

I told her the story in brief words, and she seemed interested.

"Your young patient has no organic disease?" she inquired.

"None whatever. She is ill-nourished, and works too hard. That is the
whole story."

"They are very poor."

"You can judge. Their income cannot be more than seven dollars and a
half, and of this the girl earns six dollars. Her sickness will entail
some outlay, and there is only the boy to earn money now."

"It is very sad, doctor. How little we whose wants are provided for
know of the sufferings of the poor! But fortunately," she added, and a
rare smile lighted up her features and made her positively attractive,
in spite of her name, "fortunately there is a remedy. When do you see
this poor family again?"

"I shall call to-morrow morning after breakfast."

"And in the meantime do you think they will suffer for the lack of
food?"

"It may be so. I don't think they have much money in the house?"

"Do you think you could make it convenient to call there this evening?"

"Yes, I am sure I could. Their poor home is less than half a mile
distant from our boarding-house."

"Then, doctor, be kind enough to hand them this."

She drew out her purse and handed me a five dollar bill.

I suppose I showed the joy I felt.

"Miss Blagden," I said, "you could not give me a more agreeable
commission."

"I believe it, doctor."

There was an unwonted softness in her tone, and her smile was positively
attractive.

How could we call her the "Disagreeable Woman?"




CHAPTER XIII.

MRS. WYMAN'S CURIOSITY.


I was passing our boarding-house on my return from the walk with Miss
Blagden when Mrs. Wyman tapped on the window, and opened it.

"I saw you!" she said, in a bantering tone.

"At supper?"

"No, I saw you walking away with Miss Blagden. So you are smitten at
last!"

I smiled.

"I assure you," I said, "there is nothing between us."

"You seem uncommonly attentive," and I thought there was something of
pique in her tone.

"What can I do?" I answered. "You have forsaken me, and devote yourself
to the Count."

"As if I could forget you!" she said, in a sentimental tone.

If she had known how utterly indifferent I was to her favor or disfavor
she would hardly have been complimented. She had transferred her
attentions to Count Penelli, but she still wished to retain her hold
upon me.

"By the way," she said, suddenly, "are you going to hear Patti during
her present engagement?"

"Do you take me for a millionaire?"

"Her prices are frightful!" she said, thoughtfully. "Of course I cannot
go without an escort."

"If you will secure two tickets, I will accompany you."

"Thank you, but I am so poor. Still I dote on music, and I would buy my
own ticket."

I shrugged my shoulders, and declined to take the hint.

"Very probably the Count will wish to go. He is an Italian, you know,
and would have the advantage of understanding the language."

"True."

"As a nobleman he is doubtless above money considerations."

"You are mistaken. He is the heir to great estates, but he is out of
favor with his father, and has to live on a very small allowance. It is
a pity, isn't it?"

"He might work at some business, and replenish his purse."

"But you must remember he is a nobleman. His rank debars him from many
positions that would be open to a common man."

"I am glad that I am not a nobleman, then."

"Ah, he might not object to being a doctor if he were trained to that
profession. I wish there were any way of getting a ticket to Patti,
without such a monstrous outlay. Can't you think of any way?"

"Mr. Blake is connected with a morning paper. Perhaps he may be entitled
to a Press ticket."

"Thank you, Dr. Fenwick. That is an excellent suggestion. I will speak
to him to-morrow morning. Where are you walking, if I may ask?"

"To see a poor patient. Will you accompany me?"

"No, no, I should be afraid of catching some horrid fever or something."

"The family is poor, and stands very much in need of assistance."

"How will they pay you, then?"

"They won't pay me. I shall not ask any compensation."

"I think you are foolish to waste your time on such people. They can't
benefit you."

"I can help them."

"You will never get rich in that way."

