
"I? Do you think I take tea? And how can you like it, Mr. Mackenzie?
You're not an Englishman."

Waddy thanked fate that his mother had entered human existence in New
York. Charrington, who was now near the table also, only laughed
good-naturedly. On the whole he was of the opinion that Dorothy liked
him. Her ideas about tea, or about other English customs, were not
important; he could alter them.

"I am afraid I must acknowledge that I do like it," Mackenzie had
answered.

"Do you take it in the morning--for breakfast?" inquired Dorothy, with
the air of a judge.

Mackenzie confessed that he did.

"Then you are lost. Oh, coffee, lovely coffee of home!" Dorothy went on.
"Coffee that fills the house at breakfast-time with its delicious
fragrance. Not black, as the Italians make it. Not drowned in boiled
milk, as the French drink it. As for the English beverage-- But ours, the
American--brown, strong, and with real cream! I wish I had a cup of it
now--three cups--and six buckwheat cakes with maple syrup!"

The contrast between this evoked repast and the girl herself was so
comical that the Americans who heard her broke into a laugh. Dorothy
was very slight; there was something ethereal in her appearance,
although the color in her cheeks, the brilliancy of her hazel eyes, and
the bright hue of her chestnut hair indicated a vivid vitality. As a
whole, she was charmingly pretty. The Americans who had laughed were but
two-- Mackenzie himself and Stephen Lefevre, who had now joined the
group. Lefevre wished that his adorable little countrywoman would not
say "lovely coffee." But Lefevre was, no doubt, a purist.

Felicia Philipps now came to the table with out-stretched hands. "Poor
Nora, I have only just observed how tired you are! You must have one of
your fearful headaches?"

"Oh dear, no," answered Nora, surprised. "I haven't a headache in the
least."

"Fancy! But you are overtired without knowing it; you must be, or you
would not look so pale. I am sure Mr. Mackenzie sees it. Don't you
think, Mr. Mackenzie, that Miss Sebright has been here quite long
enough? I'm so anxious to relieve her."

"It's very good of you, I'm sure," replied Mackenzie.

And then Felicia, pulling off her gloves, came round behind the table
and took possession of the place with an amiability and a rearrangement
of the cups that defied opposition.

"I am afraid this tea will be cold," Waddy meanwhile had suggested to
Dorothy.

"Yes, do take it down to mamma, Mr. Brunetti. And take this shawl too,
won't you?"

"Aren't you coming?" said Waddy, in a discomfited voice, as, shawl in
one hand and teacup in the other, he stood waiting.

"In five minutes; I have taken a fancy for spending just five minutes in
that big yellow chair."

"That is wise; I'm very pleased to hear you say it," remarked Nora, who,
though dispossessed, still lingered near. "We come up here, stay awhile,
and then go away; but you are kept on your feet for three or four hours
at a time."

"You don't go away, do you, Nora?" said Felicia. "You are so kind. I
dare say you have been here since noon?"

"The samovar--" began Nora.

"Dear samovar!" commented Felicia, smiling.

And then Nora, at last understanding the sarcasm of the tone, left the
table and crossed the room, her cheeks no longer colorless. Alan
Mackenzie, who had heard this little dialogue, thought that the two
ladies had been very kind to each other.

Mrs. Tracy, on her way back from the anteroom, whither she had gone to
escort Julian Grimston's mother, who was taking leave, now stopped at
the tea-table. She drew Felicia aside. "Stay and dine with us, won't
you? We are always tired on Saturday evenings, and it will be delightful
to hear you sing. The carriage shall take you home."

"You're awfully good," Felicia answered. "But don't trouble to send out
the carriage. Ask Mr. Mackenzie too. He will be enchanted to stay, and
then we can go down together on foot, and nobody need be bothered."

"You don't mind?"

"At my age!" answered Felicia, smiling. Felicia's smile always had a
slightly hungry look.

"We shouldn't think of it. But then we're Americans," responded Mrs.
Tracy. "Over here no woman seems to be safely old."

"Is that why so many of you come over?" demanded Felicia, who at heart
detested all American women, especially those who, like the tenants of
Villa Dorio, had plenty of money at their disposal. Then curbing her
tongue, she added, "What you say is true of wives and widows. But I
assure you that old maids are shelved over here as soon and as
completely as they are with you in Oregon."

"In Oregon!" repeated Mrs. Tracy. "You English are too extraordinary."
And she went away, laughing.

During this conversation Dorothy was leaning back in the gold-colored
easy-chair; Charrington and Stephen Lefevre were standing beside her,
and presently Julian Grimston joined the group, rubbing his dry little
hands together gleefully, and murmuring to himself something that
sounded like "Aha! aha!"

"Is it the pure joy of living, Mr. Grimston?" Dorothy inquired. For this
was said to have been Julian's answer when an acquaintance, upon passing
him in the street one day and overhearing him ahaing, had asked what it
meant.

At this moment Waddy came from the anteroom. "And mamma's tea?" Dorothy
asked.

"Raffaello was just going down; I gave it to him."

"Oh, thanks. I'm thinking how little mamma will like that." And Dorothy
played thoughtfully a soundless tune with her right hand upon the arm of
the easy-chair.

Waddy pursed up his lips in an inaudible whistle. Then with swift step
he left the room.

Five minutes later he was back again. "It's all right. I caught up with
him," he said, briefly.

"Now mark that," began Charrington. "This impostor gave those things to
Mrs. North, I'll warrant, with rolling eyes that seemed to say that even
to have touched them had been a huge joy." Waddy did not defend himself.
"I wouldn't be a cherub, as you are, even if I could," went on
Charrington. "You belong to Christmas-cards--your chin on your clasped
hands. What is a cherub out of business--a cherub going about clothed,
and with an umbrella? It's ghastly."

Mrs. Tracy to Miss Jane Wood: "How do you do, Miss Wood?"

To Miss Maria: "How do you do?"

Behind the Misses Wood came Rose Hatherbury and three of the Misses
Sebright, who were tired of sitting on the wall. Felicia, very busy,
sent tea to them all, Mackenzie carrying the cups. Raffaello presented
himself at the table to assist. Felicia did not know much Italian, but
she did know her own mind, and she wished for no second assistant; she
therefore said to Raffaello, in an undertone, but with decision, "Andate
via!" Raffaello, astounded by this unexpected "Clear out!" gazed at her
for a moment with wild eyes, and then escaped from the room.

The tea was not good--so the Misses Wood thought as they tried to sip
it; Nora Sebright, who was now walking with quick steps through the Via
Romana on her way home, would have been distressed to see how bad it
was.

"I wonder if there is any one in the garden now?" said Dorothy.

"There are fifty-seven persons," answered Rose, who had seated herself
on a sofa near. "I know, because I counted them."

"Then I must go down," said Dorothy, rising.

She nodded to Rose and to the others and left the room, Waddy following
as usual. Two minutes later, Charrington, Julian Grimston, and Stephen
Lefevre had also disappeared.

Miss Jane Wood (having given up the tea) now began, graciously, "Did you
get your ride this morning, Mr. Charrington?"

"Aunt Jane, Mr. Charrington is not here now," said Rose, in her distinct
tones.

"Oh," said Miss Jane, bewildered, and fumbling quickly for her
eye-glasses, which she had removed when she took her teacup. "He was
here a moment ago; I saw him."

"What wonderful elocutionary powers Miss Hatherbury has!" said Felicia,
in an aside, to Mackenzie. "I really think she could be heard in the
largest hall."

"Upon my word, now that you mention it, I believe she could," answered
Mackenzie, admiringly.

Rose divined that she was the subject of Felicia's aside. She said to
her aunt, in an interested tone, "How well one sees the Belmonte tower
from here!"

Miss Jane came to look, and then (in order that she should see to
advantage) her niece pulled the cord and rolled the window-shade up to
the top, letting in a broad shaft of sunset light, which fell directly
across the tea-table and the persons in attendance there. Rose took this
moment to carry her aunt's cup back to the table; and, having put it
down, she remained standing by Felicia's side while she began,
composedly, a conversation with Alan Mackenzie. Mackenzie responded:
his head immediately assumed the little bend which with him signified
devoted listening; he stood, meanwhile, exactly where Rose had intended
that he should stand--namely, in front of the two ladies, facing them.
Felicia, even in her youth, had had no beauty; now all the faults of her
sharp features were pitilessly magnified by the same clear light which
brought out the fine-grained purity of Rose's complexion and turned her
golden hair into glittering glory. Felicia was too intelligent to
cherish illusions about her appearance; she quivered under the radiance
in which the golden motes danced; she too had color now, but it was an
ugly vermilion in spots and streaks. She glanced at Mackenzie; he was
listening to Rose; now he was offering one of his civil little
questions--those attentive, never-failing small interrogatories for
which he was celebrated.

"I should like to strangle him!" thought the older woman, bitterly. "I
believe he would keep up those everlasting little questions on his
death-bed. In reality, he doesn't care the turn of his finger for that
screaming popinjay. Yet he stands there and listens to her, and will do
it unflinchingly as long as she talks, if it's all night."

The popinjay at this moment turned, and fired back at Felicia her own
gun. "You are tired, Miss Philipps. Doesn't she look tired, Mr.
Mackenzie?"

Mackenzie turned obediently; he inspected Felicia's flushed face.
"Yes--ah, really, I am afraid you are tired," he said, kindly.

Felicia, unable to bear his gaze, seized her gloves and fled.

But the popinjay could not sing, and had no invitation to stay. Alan
Mackenzie loved music. As he never spoke of the love, but few persons
had discovered it; Felicia was one of the few.

It was nearly eleven o'clock before the song began. They had gone out,
after dinner, to the small stone terrace that opened from the
drawing-room, in order to look at the valley by the light of the moon.
"For we really like our view when we don't have to talk about it," Mrs.
Tracy explained. After a while, "Come, Felicia," she said.

Felicia went within and opened the piano; Mrs. Tracy, following, sank
into the easiest chair; Mrs. North placed herself in the doorway, with
her face towards the moonlight. Dorothy remained outside, using the
hammock as a swing, pushing herself to and fro slowly by a touch on the
parapet now and then. On the other side of the terrace, in a
garden-chair, sat the second guest.

Felicia's voice was a contralto which had not a range of many notes, but
each one of the notes was perfect. Her singing was for a room only; it
was intimate, personal; perhaps too personal sometimes. The words were,
for her, a part of it as much as the melody.

    "Through the long days and years
     What will my loved one be,
        Parted from me.
     Through the long days and years?"

The music upon which these words were borne was indescribably sweet.
Dorothy had stopped swinging. But it was the melody that held her
vaguely given attention; she paid no heed to the spoken syllables.

    "Never on earth again
     Shall I before her stand,
           Touch lip or hand,
     Never on earth again,"

sang the voice, the strains floating out to the moonlight in a passion
of sorrow. Dorothy was now looking at the tower of Belmonte, near by. "I
wish our villa had a tower," was the thought in her mind. As her gaze
turned, she saw that Mackenzie's eyes were resting upon her, and she
smiled back at him, making a mute little gesture of applause.

    "But while my darling lives,
     Peaceful I journey on,
              Not quite alone,
     Not while my darling lives."

And now the music rose to that last courage, that acceptance of grief as
the daily portion of one's life, which is the highest pathos. Then there
was a silence.

Dorothy made her little motion of applause again, save that this time
the applause was audible; the words on her lips, ready to utter, were,
"How pretty that is!" Perhaps Mackenzie divined what these words would
be, for, with a quick movement, he rose and went to the end of the
terrace, where he stood with his back towards her, looking down the
valley. But Dorothy had accomplished her duty; she was perfectly willing
to be silent; she sank lazily back in the hammock again, and resumed her
swinging.

"Mr. Mackenzie, wasn't that exquisite?" said Mrs. Tracy's voice within.

Mackenzie, thus summoned, crossed the terrace and re-entered the
drawing-room. Felicia kept her seat at the piano; as Mrs. Tracy was
standing behind her, and as Mrs. North's head was turned away, she was
freed for the moment from feminine observation, and she therefore gave
herself the luxury of letting all the pathos and passion with which she
had sung remain unsubdued in her eyes, which, met his as he came up.

"Lovely, wasn't it? But so sad," continued Mrs. Tracy.

"Yes," Mackenzie answered; "it is rather sad." Then, "What song is it,
Miss Philipps?" he inquired. "I do not remember having heard it before."

"'Through the long days,'" answered Felicia, who was now looking at the
piano keys.

"Ah! And the composer?"

"Francis Boott."

"Ah! Francis Boott, yes. And the words?" His head had now its attentive
little bend.

"They are by John Hay." To herself she added: "You shall stop your
little questions; you shall say something different!" And again she
looked up at him, her eyes strangely lustrous.

And then at last he did say, "May I take the music home with me? You
shall have it again to-morrow. It is a very beautiful song."

Felicia rolled up the sheet and gave it to him, her hand slightly rigid
as she did so from repressed emotion.

At midnight the two guests took leave, Mrs. Tracy accompanying them down
to the entrance portal. The irregular open space, or piazza, before the
house had a weird appearance; the roadway looked like beaten silver; the
short grass had the hue and gleam of new tin; the atmosphere all about
was as visibly white as it is visibly black on a dark night.



"It's the moment exactly for our ghost to come out and clank his
chains," said the lady of the house. "This intensely white moonlight is
positively creepy; it is made for hobgoblins and sheeted spectres; the
Belmonte monk must certainly be dancing on the top of his tower."

"Oh no," said Felicia; "it's St. Mark's eve, so we're all under good
protection. Hear the nightingales."

She was in high spirits; her words came out between little laughs like
giggles. Mrs. Tracy watched the two figures cross the grass and turn
down the narrow passage whence the road descends in zigzags to Florence.

"Poor Felicia," she said, when she had returned up the stairs to the
drawing-room; "she is talking about St. Mark's eve, in order, I suppose,
to bring up the idea of St. Agnes's. It's late, isn't it? They must want
to walk!"

"They?" said Mrs. North. "She."

"Well, then, I wish she could," responded Mrs. Tracy. Going to the
terrace door, she looked out. "Where is Dorothy?"

"I sent her to bed; she was almost asleep in the hammock. If there is
one thing she likes better than another, it is to curl herself up in
some impossible place and fall asleep. Would you mind closing the glass
doors? The nightingales hoot so."

Mrs. Tracy closed and fastened the terrace entrance for the night.

"What do you mean by saying that you wish she could?" Mrs. North went
on. "You wouldn't have Alan Mackenzie marry that plain-looking,
ill-tempered old maid, would you?"

"Perhaps she is ill-tempered just because she is an old maid, Laura. And
as to looks--if she were happy--"

"Mercy! Are the Mackenzie millions to be devoted to the public charity
of making a Felicia Philipps happy?"

"Why, isn't it as good an object as a picture-gallery? Or even an orphan
asylum? Felicia would be a great deal happier than all the happiness
combined of the whole three hundred orphans out at St. Martin's at a
Christmas dinner," suggested Charlotte Tracy, laughing.

"Absurd! Rose Hatherbury is the one--if it's any one in Florence."

"Oh, Rose is too young for him."

"In years, yes. But Rose's heart can be any age she pleases. Alan isn't
really old in the least; but he was born middle-aged; he is the essence
of middle-age and mediocrity; one always knows beforehand what he will
say, for it will simply be, on every occasion, the most polite and the
most commonplace thing that could possibly be devised under the
circumstances. How came you to ask him to stay to dinner?"

"Felicia made me. Funny, wasn't it, to see Waddy hang on, hoping for an
invitation too."

"You might have given him one. It would have entertained Dorothy."

"Well, to tell the truth, Laura, I am a little afraid of Waddy; he is
so handsome!"

"She doesn't care for him."

"She likes him."

"Yes, as she likes a dozen more. If she has a fancy for one over
another, it is, I think, for Owen Charrington," continued the mother.
"She would have to live in England. But I dare say his people would take
to her; they are very nice, you know--his people."

"How can you talk so! Dorothy is thoroughly American; she would be
wretched in England. When she marries--which I hope won't be for five or
six years more--she must marry one of our own countrymen, of course. The
idea!"

"Very well; I've no objection. But in that case we must take her home
again before long," said Laura North, rising. As she spoke she indulged
in a stretch, with her long arms extended first horizontally, and then
slowly raised until they were perpendicular above her head, the very
finger-tips taking part in the satisfactory elongation.

"How I wish I could do that!" said Charlotte Tracy, enviously. "But
you don't say 'Ye-ough' at the end, as you ought to."

They put out the wax-candles and left the room together, Mrs. Tracy
lighting the way with a Tuscan lamp, its long chains dangling. "By this
time Felicia, 'delicately treading the clear pellucid air,' is going
through the Porta Romana," she suggested.

"Never in the world! She has taken him round by the Viale dei Colli; she
won't let him off for two good hours yet," responded Mrs. North.


II

"On Thursday, January 8th, at the English church, Florence, by the
Reverend J. Chaloner-Bouverie, Alan Mackenzie, to Dorothy, daughter of
the late Captain Richard North, United States Navy."--Galignani's
Messenger of January 10, 1882.


III

It was St. Mark's eve again, April 24th, and again there were many
visitors at Bellosguardo. Upon this occasion they were assembled at
Belmonte, the villa with the old battlemented tower, where Mr. and Mrs.
Alan Mackenzie were receiving their Florentine friends for the first
time since their marriage; they had been travelling in Sicily and
southern Italy through the winter months.

"We shall be going home in 1883, I suppose," Mackenzie had said to the
ladies of Villa Dorio; "I shall be obliged to go then; or at least it
would be better to go. In the meanwhile, as Dorothy appears to be rather
fond of Bellosguardo--don't you think so?-- I have had the idea of taking
Belmonte for a time. That is, if you yourselves intend to continue
here?"

"Oh, we shall continue, we shall continue," Mrs. Tracy had answered,
laughing. "For detached American ladies, who haven't yet come to calling
themselves old--for the cultivated superfluous and the intelligent
remainders--there is nothing like Europe!"

The flat highways down in the Arno Valley, west of Bellosguardo, are
deep in dust even as early as April; the villages, consisting for the
most part of a shallow line of houses on each side of the road, almost
join hands, so that it is not the dust alone that afflicts the
pedestrian, but children, dogs, the rinds of fruit and vegetables--all
the far-reaching untidiness of a Southern race that lives in the street.
The black-eyed women sit in chairs at the edge of the dry gutter,
plaiting straw; up to middle-age they are all handsome, with thick hair
and soft, dark eyes. On this April afternoon they laughed (waiting with
Italian politeness until she had passed) as an Englishwoman trudged by
them on her way back to Florence. Her plain dress was short, revealing
long shoes white with dust; her unbeautiful face was mottled by the
heat; she looked tired enough to lie down and die. But to the
straw-plaiting matrons she was simply ridiculous, or else mad; for how
otherwise should a foreigner be toiling along their plebeian highway on
foot, when she could so easily have a carriage? Felicia was finishing
her daily walk of miles--a walk without an object save to tire herself.
As she passed the olive-crowned heights of Bellosguardo rising on the
right, she lifted her eyes.

"He is there, seeing everybody. All the same people who were there a
year ago to-day. And what are they thinking--perhaps saying? 'See this
dull, middle-aged man, with that flighty little creature for a wife! She
cares nothing for him; she turns him round her finger, and always will.'
O fool! fool too noble to see or to doubt; simple, generous nature,
never asserting itself, always repressed, that I understood, while all
these other people, that girl at the head of them, only laughed at it!"

She hastened on, passed through the city gate, and made her way down the
dirty, evil-smelling Borgo San Frediano to San Spirito beyond, where,
high up in an old palace, she had a small apartment crowded with
artistic trumpery. After climbing the long stairs, and letting herself
in with a latch-key, she entered her minute drawing-room, and sank into
a chair, her feet, in their dusty shoes, like two blocks of wood on the
matting before her. And the plates and the plaques and the pots, the
bits of silk and tapestry and embroidery, the old sketches and old busts
and old shrines that adorned the walls, looked down upon her with their
usual heterogeneous glimmer. This time the glimmer seemed personally
sarcastic, seemed inhuman.

While she sat there, the people at Belmonte were beginning to take
leave. Rose was to remain (with Miss Jane Wood). As Waddy Brunetti was
to remain also, the Misses Sebright looked at Rose with envy. Six of the
sisters were now united in a single admiration. For Owen Charrington had
gone to Australia before Christmas--it was about the time that Dorothy's
engagement had been announced--and he had not returned; admiration could
not stretch to the antipodes. Waddy, too, had been absent through
January, February, and March; but he was now at home again, so there was
some use in going once more to teas and receptions.

"How lovely Mrs. Mackenzie is looking!" said Miss Maria Wood on the way
down to Florence.

She had accepted a seat in Mrs. Grimston's carriage, and it was that
lady who answered her.

"Yes--fairly; it's her youth more than anything else. Strictly speaking,
there are but two kinds of beauty--dimpled youth like that, and the
noble outline and bearing that come from distinguished birth."

This was a double shot. For Rose certainly had no dimples, and the birth
of distinction pointed of course to the widowed countess. But Julian,
who sat facing his mother, had no longer any courage to resist; his poor
little eyes, like those of a sick monkey, had shed their two slow tears
on Christmas eve, when, at last allowed to retreat to his own (cold)
room, he had accepted drearily the tidings of Dorothy's engagement, and
had given up his struggle against fate.

Mr. Illingsworth walked down the hill with Mrs. Sebright, her girls
following at a little distance, two and two. "Don't I miss one of your
charming daughters?" he said, gallantly, as, happening to look back at
the turn of a zigzag, he caught sight of the procession coming round the
higher bend.

"Dear me! I wish he might miss three or four!" thought the mother. But
this was nothing worse on her part than a natural desire to translate
three or four of them to richer atmospheres--a Yorkshire country-house,
for instance, or a good vicarage; even army life in India would do.
Meanwhile she was replying, "Yes--Nora; Nora has been at St. Martin's
Orphan House, out in the country, since Christmas. She is greatly
interested in the work there; so much so that I have consented to let
her remain."

Nora's secret only one person had discovered, and this one was the
benevolent stranger, Charlotte Tracy, who had happened to see the
expression in the girl's eyes for one instant, when the news of Alan
Mackenzie's engagement had come upon her suddenly, and taken her (as it
took all Florence) by surprise. The American lady, instantly
comprehending, had (while her own face showed nothing) screened Nora
skilfully from observation for several minutes. And ever since she had
kept her knowledge hidden away very closely in a shaded corner of her
heart.

"A true Sister of Charity," Mr. Illingsworth had responded to the
mother's reply about the orphan house. But as he said this he was
thinking, "And if I had married, as I came so near doing, I, too,
might have had at my heels this moment--great heavens!--just such
another red-cheeked, affectionate train!"

That evening the ladies who had dined at Belmonte were taking their
coffee in the garden; there was no moon, but the splendid stars gave a
light of their own as they spangled the dark-blue sky. From the open
door of the boudoir at this end of the house, the light, streaming
forth, fell upon Dorothy as she sat talking to Rose. After a while the
gentlemen joined the ladies; and then Waddy talked to Rose. But while he
talked, his eyes followed the hostess, who was now strolling up and down
the honeysuckle path with one of her guests. Some one asked Waddy to
sing. Nothing loath, he went within, brought out Dorothy's guitar, and
sang one of Tosti's serenades. The song and his voice, a melodious
tenor, accorded so perfectly with the old Italian garden that there was
much applause. And then Waddy, having moved his chair into the shadow of
the trees, sent forth after a while from the darkness, unasked, a second
song, and this time the words were English:

    "Through the long days, the long days and the years,
       What will my loved one be,
       Parted from me, parted from me,
     Through the long days and years?"

The lady who had been strolling with Dorothy had stopped to speak to
some one, and for the moment the young wife, who had reached the end of
the honeysuckle path, was alone. Mackenzie came up quietly and stood
beside her as the song went on. When it had ended, she looked up at
him.

"Do you like it so much?" she asked, in surprise, as she saw, in the
starlight, the expression of his face.

"It's because I have so much more than I ever dreamed of having,
Dorothy," he answered, in a low tone, just touching her hair in the
shadow. "A year ago--do you remember? That same song, on the terrace? It
expressed what I felt; for then I had no hope. But now--"

Here a voice from the group of ladies said, "Mr. Mackenzie will know;
ask him." And Mackenzie, returning to the light, was the attentive host
again. Waddy, meanwhile, crossed the grass quickly to the honeysuckle
path.

He was the last to take leave; when Mackenzie returned, after escorting
Mrs. North and Mrs. Tracy to the Villa Dorio, he was still in the garden
with Dorothy.

Fifteen minutes later, through the open windows of Mrs. North's chamber
there came the sound of steps.

"Waddy," said Charlotte Tracy, peeping through the closed blinds, and
recognizing his figure. "He has outstayed everybody."

"You are no longer afraid of him, I trust?" inquired Mrs. North.

"Certainly not," said the older lady with decision. After a moment she
added, "She must always amuse herself, I suppose."

"She has the very best of safeguards."

"Now there you go, with your cold-blooded judgments, Laura! Dorothy has
as deep feelings as anybody. I don't know where you get your knowledge
of her; you are her step-mother, it is true; but I have been with her as
constantly as you have for years."

"Quite so. May I ask how well you knew her father?"

"I don't care!" was Charlotte's reply. She left the room with majesty.
The majesty lasted through the hall, and into her own chamber, as she
reflected, "I have feelings. And Dorothy has feelings. But Laura is a
stone!" At this moment she caught a glimpse of herself in the
full-length mirror, and majesty collapsed. "Do I look like that? Do I?
Stout, short-nosed?" And she sank down on a sofa overwhelmed. But
presently a laugh broke through her discomfiture. "The very next
crumpled little old man I see, I'll be nice to him! I'll ask who is his
favorite poet, and I'll get him to quote--yes, even if it's Byron!" Mrs.
Tracy's favorite author was Ibsen.

"You will do it if I wish, won't you, Alan?" said Dorothy the next day.

"Why, if you really wish it--if you think it best--" began Mackenzie.

"She doesn't in the least," interposed Mrs. North. "Don't indulge her
so; you will spoil her."

Mackenzie's eyes turned towards his wife.

"Don't look at me to see whether mamma is right," said Dorothy,
laughing; "invent an opinion of your own about me--do! But let us have
something striking; consider me capable of murder, for instance, not of
mere commonplace selfishness. Every woman is capable of murder once; I
am perfectly sure of it."

"My dear," said Mackenzie, expostulatingly.

"I don't know whether I could quite do it with my own hands," Dorothy
went on, stretching out her palms and looking at them. "But Felicia
Philipps could; yes, with her long fingers. Brrrr!" And she rushed to
her husband and hid her face on his arm.

She had her way, which was not a murder, but a ball. Soon afterwards
there was a summer-night party at Belmonte, with music and dancing; the
tower and the garden, illuminated, were visible for miles roundabout,
like a fairy-land on the dark hill. Then followed excursions, long
drives, and, more frequently, long rides; for Dorothy had taken to
riding. Mackenzie accompanied the riding-parties cheerfully. But Dorothy
was often far in advance with one of the younger cavaliers.

"I believe I should come back from the dead, Alan, to see you pounding
along, always at the very end of the procession, with Miss Jane Wood,"
said the young wife one day. "I know you don't care much about riding.
But why do you always escort Miss Jane? She must weigh one hundred and
eighty."

"She is a little timid, I think," answered Mackenzie; "at least, I have
fancied so. She only goes to see to Miss Hatherbury."

"As you see to me?"

Mackenzie liked long walks.

"But walking is so dull. And the people who take long walks have such an
insufferable air of superiority," commented Dorothy. "Not that you have
come to that, Alan; with you it's just simple vanity."

And making the motion of turning up trousers at the bottom, she crossed
the garden, holding her riding-whip like a cane, with her shoulders put
back, her head run out a little, and a long step with a dip in the
middle of it--the whole an amusing caricature of her husband's gait when
starting on a long excursion. Mackenzie had taught himself that gait; he
had even been a little proud of it. But now he joined irrepressibly in
his wife's merriment, as she loped down the broad walk, and then came
running back to him with her own light swiftness.

Occasionally, however, she went with him for a stroll. One day late in
the afternoon they passed Villa Dorio together. The sun, low in the
west, was shining on all the square Tuscan towers that dot the hill-tops
in every direction. May was now more than half spent, and the air was
like that of July in Northern countries. The ladies of Villa Dorio saw
them go by; Dorothy's straw hat was hanging by its ribbons from her arm.

"He hates to have her out without her hat," remarked Mrs. Tracy, leaning
forward to watch them for a moment.

"Well, in that dress, she doesn't look more than fourteen," answered
Mrs. North.

Mr. and Mrs. Mackenzie went on down the hill. When they came to the
first zigzag, they left the main road, and, turning, crossed a grassy
little piazza; beyond, clinging to the side of the hill, with a cluster
of cypresses before it like tall green candles, is the small church of
San Vito, commanding a magnificent sweep of the valley below. As they
passed, San Vito's chimes rang the Angelus, swinging far out from the
open belfry against the sky with all the abandon of Italian bells, which
seem forever joyous--almost intoxicated--even for the dead. San Vito's
has a path of its own which follows a narrow shelf overhanging the
valley; the two pedestrians turned down this path. As the bells ceased,
Dorothy began to sing:

    "Ring out across the sunset sky, Angelus--"

"Go on; go on," said Mackenzie, delightedly. "Oh, I can't sing."

"Dear, I think you could; your voice is so sweet. If you would take
lessons--"

"Well, by-and-by. We have lots of time for everything, Alan." When they
came to the turn where there is a rustic shrine she paused. "I won't go
any farther, I think. But don't stop because I do; you like your walk.
Go on, and come back through the olive groves just beyond Belmonte; I
will be waiting for you at our wall."

"I don't like to leave you here alone."

"Not under the shrine? What's more, here is the priest."

The priest of San Vito's was coming down the path. He was an old man,
with a large, sensible face, and a somewhat portly person dressed in
well-brushed black. He aided his steps with a cane. His bearing was
serene and dignified. As he passed, Mackenzie saluted him, raising his
hat.

"For a Unitarian," said Dorothy, after the worthy man had gone by,
"aren't you showing a good deal of courtesy? But you would be courteous
to any religion; you would respect the fetish of a South Sea Islander.
Do you know, Alan, that you have too many respects? Please go now, so
that you can be back the sooner." Mackenzie, who had been leaning
against the parapet, turned and began to go down the descent. His wife
followed him for a step or two, in order to brush some mortar from his
sleeve. "You see it is I that must keep you respectable--in spite of
your respects."

How pretty she was! They were alone under the high wall. "My darling,"
he murmured. And Dorothy, laughing, raised herself on tiptoe to kiss
him.

Half an hour later, when he reached the wall near Belmonte, there was
no Dorothy. He went within. The signora had gone to Villa Dorio, the
servant said. He came out and followed her thither. Yes, Dorothy had
been there; but Waddy Brunetti had happened in, and they had strolled
down as far as San Vito's.

Mackenzie did not say, "But she has just been to San Vito's." He sat
talking with the ladies for twenty minutes or more; then he remarked,
offering it as a suggestion for their approval, "I think I will walk on
to San Vito's and meet them."

"Yes, do," said Mrs. North. "And make that foolish Dorothy put on her
hat."

"It is as warm as midsummer. And the air is perfectly dry, I think; no
dew," Mackenzie answered.

"He defends her even when she vexes him," commented Charlotte Tracy,
after he had gone.

"He might as well be amiable, seeing that he cannot be interesting,"
Mrs. North responded.

Dorothy was not at San Vito's. And she had not gone down the zigzags of
the carriage-road; he went down to see. He returned to Belmonte. It was
now late twilight. But there was still a band of orange light in the
west, and, outlined against it, on the top of the tower, were two
figures. He recognized them instantly--Dorothy and young Brunetti.

Dorothy waved her hand to him through one of the embrasures. "Send up
some one with candles," she called.

"With what?"

"Can-dles; it's too dark now to come down without lights. But don't send
immediately; wait fifteen minutes more, so that we can see the moon
rise. And, Alan!"

"Yes?"

"Please tell them that Mr. Brunetti will stay and dine with us."


IV

On the 29th of December of this same year, 1882, Reginald Illingsworth
was paying a visit to Mrs. Sebright.

"What a career that little girl will have!" he said, with deep gustatory
appreciation.

Before this, for half an hour, he had been making remarks of a nature
best described by the following examples: "That excellent fellow,
