asleep. Miss Underhill?" in a sort of surprised inquiry. "I am--one of
the sisters. Walk in."

She pushed out one of the arm-chairs and gave her footstool to the
little girl.

"I am an Underhill myself, a sort of connection, I dare say. We heard of
you some time ago, but I have been much occupied with business, yet I
have intended all the time to call on you."

"You are very good, I am sure. We had some relations on Long Island, and
I think some here-about, but we lost sight of them long ago. We really
have no one now. My sister Jane is past eighty, and I am only three
years younger."

She was a slim, shrunken body and her hands were almost transparent, so
white was her skin. Her gown was gray, and she wore a white kerchief
crossed on her bosom like a Quakeress. Her fine muslin cap had the
narrow plain border of that denomination.

Mr. Underhill made a brief explanation of his antecedents, and his
removal to the city,--then mentioned hearing of them from Mr. Brockner.

"You are very good to hunt us up," she said, with a touching tremble in
her voice. "I don't think now I could tell anything about my father's
relatives. He was killed at the battle of Harlem Heights, and my only
brother was taken prisoner. The Ferrises, my mother's people, owned a
great farm here-about. But much of it was laid waste, and a little later
the old homestead burned down. This house was built for us before the
British evacuated the city. My brother had died in prison of a fever,
and there were only my mother and us two girls."

Hanny was sitting quite close by her. She reached over and took the
wrinkled hand gently.

"Do you mean you were alive then--a little girl in the Revolutionary
War?" she exclaimed in breathless surprise.

"Why, I was nine years old," and she gave a faded little smile. "I doubt
if you're more than that."

"I am a little past eight," said Hanny.

"And the battle was just over yonder," nodding her head. "We all hoped
so that General Washington would win. My father was very patriotic and
very much in earnest for the independence of the country. The armies
were separated by Harlem Plains, and General Howe pushed forward through
McGowan's Pass, the rocky gorge over yonder. But our men forced them
into the cleared field, and if it had not been for a troop of Hessians
they would have driven the British off the field. But I believe
Washington thought it best to retreat. I've heard it was almost a
victory, still it wasn't quite. But we were wild with apprehension, for
we could hear the noise and the firing. And then the awful word came
that father was killed."

"Oh!" cried the little girl, and she laid her soft cheek on the wrinkled
hand. What if she had been alive then!--and she looked over at her
father with tears in her eyes.

"It was a sad, sad time. Some of the Ferrises were on the King's side.
You know a great many people believed the rebels all wrong and said they
never could win. My Uncle Ferris was bitterly opposed to father's
espousing the Federalists' cause."

"But you didn't want England to win, did you?" inquired the little girl,
wide-eyed.

"We were so full of trouble. Mother was very bitter, I remember, and
folks called her a Tory. Then brother, who was only seventeen, was taken
prisoner. Uncle Ferris said it would be a good lesson for a hot-headed
young fellow, and that two or three months in prison would cool his
ardor. But he was taken sick and died before we knew he was really ill.
Then our house burned down. Mother thought it was set on fire. Oh, my
child, such quantities of things as were in it! My mother had never
gone away from the old house because grandmother was a widow. Then the
land was divided, and this smaller house built for mother and us. The
British took possession of the city, and it was said uncle made money
right along. But the English were very good to us, and no one ever
molested us after that. Dear, we used to think it almost a day's journey
to go down to the Bowling Green."

The little girl was listening wide-eyed, and drew a long breath.

"There have been many changes. But somehow we seem to have gone on until
most everybody has forgotten us. You might like to see sister Jane,
though she's quite deaf and hasn't her mind very clear. I don't
know,"--hesitatingly.

"Do you live all alone here?" Mr. Underhill asked.

"Not exactly alone; no. We sold the next-door lot four years ago to some
Germans, very nice people. The mother comes in and helps with our little
work and looks after our garden, and sleeps here at night. The doctor
thought it wasn't safe to be left here alone with sister Jane. It made
it easy for them to pay for the place. It's nearly all gone now. But
there'll be enough to last our time out," she commented with a soft sigh
of self-abnegation.

"And you have no relatives, that is, no one to look after you a bit?"

"Well, you see grandmother made hard feelings with the relatives. She
didn't think the colonies had any right to go to war. And after father's
death mother felt a good deal that way. They dropped us out, and we
never took any pains to hunt them up. We never knew much about the
Underhills. I must say you are very kind to come," and her voice
trembled.

Just then the door opened and Miss Underhill sprang up to take her
sister's arm and lead her to a chair. She was taller and stouter, and
the little girl thought her the oldest-looking person she had ever seen.
Her cap was all awry, her shawl was slipping off of one shoulder, and
she had a sort of dishevelled appearance, as she looked curiously
around.

Lois straightened her up, seated her, and introduced her to the
visitors.

"I'm hungry. I want something to eat, Lois," she exclaimed in a whining,
tremulous tone, regardless of the strangers.

Miss Underhill begged to be excused, and went for a plate of bread and
butter and a cup of milk.

"Perhaps you'd like to see our old parlor," she said to her guests, and
opened the door.

There were two rooms on this side of the house. The back one was used
for a sleeping chamber. She threw the shutters wide open, and a little
late sunshine stole over the faded carpet that had once been such a
matter of pride with the two young women. There were some family
portraits, a man with a queue and a ruffled shirt-front, another with a
big curly white wig coming down over his shoulders, and several ladies
whose attire seemed very queer indeed. There was a black sofa studded
with brass nails that shone as if they had been lately polished, a tall
desk and bookcase going up to the ceiling, brass and silver candlesticks
and snuffers' tray, as well as a bright steel "tinder box" on the high,
narrow mantel. A big mahogany table stood in the centre of the room,
polished until you could see your face in it. But there was an odd tall
article in the corner, much tarnished now, but ornamented with gilt and
white vines that drooped and twisted about. Long wiry strings went from
top to bottom.

"I suppose you don't know what that is!" said Miss Lois, when she saw
the little girl inspecting it. "That's a harp. Young ladies played on it
when we were young ourselves. And they had a spinet. I believe it's
altered now and called a piano."

"A harp!" said the little girl in amaze. Her ideas of a harp were very
vague, but she thought it was something you carried around with you.
She had heard the children sing

    "I want to be an angel
      And with the angels stand;
    A crown upon my forehead,
      A harp within my hand,"

and the size of this confused her.

"But how could you play on it?" she asked.

"You stood this way. You could sit down, but it was considered more
graceful to stand. And you played in this manner."

She fingered the rusted strings. A few emitted a doleful sort of sound
almost like a cry.

"We've all grown old together," she said sorrowfully. "It was considered
a great accomplishment in my time. I believe people still play on the
harp. We had a great many curious things, but several years ago a
committee of some kind came and bought them. We needed the money sadly,
and we had no one to leave them to when we died. There was some
beautiful old china, and a lady bought the fan and handkerchief that my
grandmother carried at her wedding. The handkerchief was worked at some
convent in Italy and was fine as a cobweb. My mother used it, and then
it was laid by for us. But we never needed it," and she gave a soft
sigh.

She had glided out now and then to look after Jane, who was eating as
if she was starved. And in the broken bits of talk Mr. Underhill had
learned by indirect questioning that they had parted with their land by
degrees, and with some family valuables, until there was only this old
house and a small space of ground left.

Miss Jane was anxious now to see the visitors. But she was so deaf Lois
had to repeat everything, and she seemed to forget the moment a thing
was said. Dobbin whinnied as if he thought the call had been long
enough.

Mr. Underhill squeezed a bank-note into the hand of Miss Lois as he said
good-by. "Get some little luxury for your sister," he added.

"Thank you for all your friendliness," and the tears stood in her eyes.
"Come again and bring your sister Margaret," she said to the little
girl.

They drove over westward a short distance. The rocky gorge was still
there, and at its foot was one of the first battle-fields of this
vicinity. Hanny looked at it wonderingly.

"Then Washington retreated up to Kingsbridge," began her father. "They
found they could not hold that, and so went on to White Plains, followed
by some Hessian troops. They didn't seem very fortunate at first, for
they were beaten again. Grandmother can tell you a good deal about that.
And a great-uncle had his house burned down and they were forced to fly
to a little old house on top of a hill. My father was a little boy
then."

The little girl looked amazed. Did he know about the war?

"It seems such a long, long time ago--like the flood and the selling of
Joseph. And was grandmother really alive?"

"Grandmother is about as old as Miss Lois."

"Miss Lois doesn't look so awful old, but the other lady does. I felt
afraid of her."

"Don't think of her, pussy. It's very sad to lose your senses and be a
trouble."

"You couldn't," was the confident reply after much consideration. She
didn't see how such a thing could happen to him.

"I hope I never shall," he returned, with an earnest prayer just under
his breath.

Dobbin insisted upon going home briskly. He was thinking of his supper.
The little girl was so sorry not to have Benny Frank to talk over her
adventures with. Margaret and her mother were basting shirts; John was
drawing plans on the dining-room table. He had found a place to work at
house-building and was studying architecture and draughting. A man had
come in to see her father, so she was left quite alone. The Deans and
several of the little girls on the block had gone visiting. She walked
up and down a while, thinking how strange the world was, and what
wonderful things had happened, vaguely feeling that there couldn't be
any to come in the future.

At the end of the week she and Margaret went up to White Plains, as
grandmother was anxious to see them.

Her grandmother was invested with a curious new interest in her eyes.
That any one belonging to her should have lived in the Revolutionary War
seemed a real stretch of the imagination for a little girl eight years
old. Grandmother considered her wonderful also. She wasn't so much in
favor of short frocks and pantalets that came down to your ankles, but
the little girl did look pretty in them. And when she found how neatly
she could hemstitch and do such beautiful featherstitch, and darn, and
read so plainly that it was a pleasure to listen to her, she had to
admit that Hannah Ann was a real credit, and, she confessed in her
secret heart, a very sweet little girl.

"I've begun your new Irish chain patchwork," she said. "I've made one
block for a pattern, and cut out quite a pile. Aunt Eunice lighted upon
some beautiful green calico. I was upon a stand whether to have green or
red, but an Irish chain generally is pieced of green. It seems more
appropriate."

And yet people had not begun to sing "The Wearing of the Green."

"I declare," said Cousin Ann, "you're such an old-fashioned little thing
one can hardly tell which is the oldest, you or grandmother."

"Is it anything"--what should she say?--wrong or bad seemed too
forcible--"queer to be old-fashioned?"

"Well, yes, queer. But you're awful sweet and cunning, Hannah Ann, and
we'd just like to keep you forever."

With that she almost squeezed the breath out of the little girl and
kissed her a dozen times.

Grandmother could tell such wonderful stories as they sat and sewed. All
the glories of the old Underhill house, and the silver and plate that
had come over from England, and the set of real china that a sea
captain, one of the Underhills, had brought from China and how it had
taken three years to go there and come back. And the beautiful India
shawl it had taken seven years to make, and the Persian silk gown that
had been bought of some great chief or Mogul--grandmother wasn't quite
sure, but she thought they had a king or emperor in those countries. She
had a little piece of the silk that she showed Hanny, and a waist ribbon
that came from Paris, "For you see," said she, "we were so angry with
England that we wouldn't buy anything of her if we could help it. And
the French people came over and helped us."

"What did they fight about, grandmother?"

"Oh, child, a great many things. You can't understand them all now, but
you'll learn about them presently. The people who came here and settled
the country wanted the right to govern themselves. They thought a king,
thousands of miles away, couldn't know what was best for them. And
England sent over things and we had to pay for them whether we wanted
them or not. And it was a long struggle, but we won, and the British had
to go back to their own country. Why, if we hadn't fought, we wouldn't
have had any country," and grandmother's old face flushed.

The little girl thinks it would be dreadful not to have a country, but
her mind is quite chaotic on the subject. She is glad, however, to have
been on the winning side.

Nearly every day Uncle David took her out driving. They saw the old
house on the hill in a half-hidden, woody section where the family had
to live until the new house was built. They went round the battlefield,
but sixty years of peace had made great changes, and the next fifty
years was to see a beautiful town and many-storied palaces all about.
She dipped into the history of New Amsterdam again and began to
understand it better, though she did mistrust that Mr. Dederich
Knickerbocker now and then "made fun," not unlike her father.

The visit came to an end quite too soon, grandmother thought, and she
was very sorry to part with the little girl. She thought she would try
and come down when the fall work was done, and she gave Hanny only four
blocks of patchwork, for if she went to school there wouldn't be much
time to sew.

They stopped at Yonkers two days and picked up the boys, who were brown
and rosy. Aunt Crete was much better and did not have to go about with
her face tied up. She said there was no place like Yonkers, after all.
Retty seemed happy and jolly, but there was a new girl in the kitchen,
for Aunt Mary had gone to live with her children. George said he should
come down a while when the crops were in.

School commenced the 1st of September sharp. It was hot, of course.
Summer generally does lap over. The boys who had shouted themselves
hoarse with joy when school closed, made the street and the playground
ring with delight again. If they were not so fond of studying they liked
the fun and good-fellowship. And when they marched up and down the long
aisles singing:

    "Hail Columbia, happy land;
    Hail ye heroes, heaven-born band.
    Who fought and bled in freedom's cause!"

you could feel assured another generation of patriots was being raised
for some future emergency. Oh, what throats and lungs they had!

Mrs. Underhill had been around to see Mrs. Craven, and liked her very
well indeed. So the little girl was to go to school with Josie and Tudie
Dean.

Some new people had come in the street two doors below. Among the
members was a little girl of seven, the child of the oldest son, and a
large girl of fourteen or so, two young ladies, one of whom was teaching
school, and the other making artificial flowers in a factory down-town,
and two sons. The eldest one was connected with a newspaper, and was in
quite poor health. His wife, the little girl's mother, had been dead
some years. The child was rather pale and thin, with large, dark eyes,
and a face too old for her years and rather pathetic. And when Mrs.
Whitney came in a few days later to inquire where Mrs. Underhill sent
her little girl to school, she decided to let her grandchild go to Mrs.
Craven's also.

"She's quite a delicate little thing and takes after her mother. I tell
my son, she wants to company with other children and not sit around
nursing the cat. But Ophelia, that's my daughter who teaches down-town,
where we used to live, says the public school is no place for her. And
your little girl seems so nice and quiet like."

Nora, as they called her, was very shy at first. Hanny went after her,
and found the Deans waiting on their stoop. Nora never uttered a word,
but looked as if she would cry the next moment. Mrs. Craven took her in
charge in a motherly fashion, but it seemed very hard for her to
fraternize with the children.

Mrs. Craven lived in a corner house. The entrance to the school was on
Third Street, and the schoolroom was built off the back parlor, which
was used as a recitation-room for the older class. There were about
twenty little girls, none of them older than twelve. At the end of the
yard was a vacant lot, fenced in, which made a beautiful playground.

There were numbers of such schools at that period, but they were mostly
for little girls. Hanny liked it very much. On Wednesday afternoon they
had drawing, and reading aloud, when the girls could make their own
selections, which were sometimes very amusing. On Friday afternoon they
sewed and embroidered and did worsted work. There was quite a rage about
this. One girl had a large piece in a frame--"Joseph Sold by his
Brethren." Hanny never tired of the beautiful blue and red and orange
costumes. Another girl was working a chair seat. And still another had
begun to embroider a black silk apron with a soft shade of red. Then
they hemstitched handkerchiefs, they marked towels and napkins with
ornate letters, and really were a busy lot. Little Eleanora Whitney
couldn't sew a stitch, and some of the girls thought it "just dreadful."

Friday from half-past three until five Miss Helen Craven gave the
children, whose parents desired it, a dancing lesson. If Nora couldn't
sew, she could dance like a fairy. Her education was a curious
conglomeration. She could read and declaim, but spelling was quite
beyond her, and her attempts at it made a titter through the room. She
could talk a little French, and she had crossed the ocean to England
with her papa. So she wasn't to be despised altogether.




CHAPTER VIII

THE END OF THE WORLD


"'Taint no such thing! The world couldn't come to an end!" Janey Day
quite forgot Mrs. Craven's strictures on speech. "It's too strong.
And--and----"

"And it's round," said the wit of the school. "Round as a ring and has
no end. There now."

"But the world ain't like a ring."

"So isn't my love for you, my friend."

There was quite a little shout of laughter.

One of the larger girls, Hester Brown, stood with upraised head and
earnest countenance.

"It is coming to an end in October. It is only two or three weeks off.
My father has read it all in the Bible. And we are getting ready."

Her demeanor silenced the little group.

"But how do you get ready?"

"We must repent of our sins. And that's why mother wouldn't let me come
to the dancing-class. She thinks it wrong, any way. And mother and
Auntie are making their ascension robes. We go to church every night."

The girls stood awestruck.

"What's going to happen?" asked one.

"Why, the world will be burned up. All those who love God are to be
caught up to heaven. Then the dead people who have been good will rise
out of their graves. And all the rest--everything will be burned."

The solemnity of the girl's voice impressed so that they looked at each
other in silent fear.

"I just don't believe a word of it," declared Janey Day, drawing a long
breath. "My father's a good man and goes to church and reads the Bible
every night. He's read it through more than fifty times, and he's never
said a word about the world coming to an end. And he's building a new
house for us to move into next spring."

"Fifty times, Janey Day! It takes a long, long while to read the Bible
through. My grandmother's read it all through twice, and she's awful
old."

"Well--twenty times at least. And don't you 'spose he'd found something
about it?"

"Everybody can't tell. It's in Daniel. There's days and times to be
added up."

"Five of you, Janey," said the wit with a child's irreverence.

"Just when is it coming to an end? Girls, there's no use to study any
more lessons."

"It will be next week," said Hester with almost tragic solemnity. "But
you must all go on doing your work just the same."

"I don't see the sense. I've just begun fractions, and I hate them. I
won't do another sum."

The bell rang and recess was at an end. The girls straggled until they
reached the doorway, then suddenly straightened themselves into an
orderly line and took their seats quietly. There was a sound of rapidly
moving pencils--slates and pencils were in full swing then. No one had
invented "pads."

One after another read out answers. A few went up to Mrs. Craven for
assistance.

"Lottie Brower," the lady said presently.

Lottie colored. She had a kind of school-girl grudge against Hester.

"I--I haven't done my sums," she replied slowly.

"Why not?"

"Because the world is coming to an end. They're so hard, and what is the
use if we're not going to live longer than next week?"

Every girl stopped her work and stared at Hester, amazed, yet rather
enjoying Lottie's audacity.

"How did you come by such an idea?" asked Mrs. Craven quietly.

"But is there any use of studying or anything?" Lottie's voice had a
little tremble in it. "I'm sure I don't want the world to come to an
end, but----"

"Do your people believe this?"

"No, ma'am," replied Lottie.

"Where, then, did you get the idea?"

"Hester Brown is sure----"

Hester's face was scarlet. She felt that she was called upon to bear
witness.

"My father and mother believe it, and we are all getting ready. My uncle
means to give away all his things next week."

The girl was in such earnest that Mrs. Craven was puzzled for a moment.

"I do not think we shall know the day or the hour," was the reply. "We
are all exhorted to go on diligently with whatever we are doing. And
Lottie, Hester has certainly set you an example. She did her sums
correctly. She has added works to her faith as the Bible commands. I am
aware many people think the end of the world is near, but that is no
reason for our being careless and indolent. I doubt if that excuse would
be accepted; at all events, I cannot accept yours."

"But I hate fractions! The divisors and the multiples get all mixed up
and go racing round in my head until I can't tell one from the other."

"Bring your slate here." Mrs. Craven made room for her by the table.
"Now, what is the trouble?"

Twelve o'clock struck before Lottie was through, but she had to admit
that it wasn't so "awful" when Mrs. Craven explained the sums in her
quiet, lucid manner. The girls rose and went to the closet for their
hats and capes.

"Girls," began Mrs. Craven, "I want to say a word. I hope each one of
you will respect the other's religious belief. Our country has been
founded on the corner-stone of liberty in this matter, and one ought to
be noble enough not to ridicule or sneer at any honest, sincere faith,
remembering that we cannot all believe alike."

Hester went out with two or three of the larger girls.

"I do not think you were quite kind, Lottie," said her teacher, in a
soft tone.

"But what would be the use of fractions if the world came to an end?"

"Oh, Mrs. Craven! do you believe it? I should feel just dreadful. The
world has so many splendid things in it--and to be burned up."

"I should just be frightened to death," and one little girl shuddered.

"Children, I am sorry anything has been said about this. There are a
good many people who believe and who have preached for the last three
years that the end of the world is near. The time has been set for next
week. Yet the Bible does say that no man knoweth the day nor the
hour. I do not believe in these predictions," and she smiled
reassuringly. "I think we can all count on Thanksgiving and a merry
Christmas as well as a happy New Year. I want you all to be kind to each
other, and when Hester is disappointed next week, to refrain from
teasing her. If you think for a moment, you will find it very easy to
believe just as your parents do, for you love them the best of any one
in this world. And the more you respect and obey them, the more ready
you are to be kind and gentle and truthful to all about you, the better
you are serving God. You must leave this matter in His hands, and
remember that He loves you all, and will do whatever is best. Don't feel
troubled about the world coming to an end. I am afraid Lottie here will
have a great deal more trouble about fractions. I doubt if she gets
through by Christmas. Now run home or you will be late for dinner."

The little girl sat very quiet at the table. There was only her mother,
John, and the boys. She wished that her father or Steve were here so she
could ask them. A strange awe was creeping over her. It seemed so
dreadful to have all the world burned up. There might be some people
left behind in the hurry. It hurt terribly to be burned even a little.

There was a very sober lot of girls at school that afternoon. The jest
was all taken out of recess. Hester sat on the steps reading a little
pocket Testament. The others huddled together and shook their heads
mysteriously, saying just above a whisper, "I don't believe it." "My
mother says it isn't so." But somehow they did not seem to fortify
themselves much with these protestations.

Some of the elder cousins had come to visit and take tea. People went
visiting by three in the afternoon and carried their work along. There
was an atmosphere of relationship and real living that gave a certain
satisfaction. You enjoyed it. It was not paying a social debt
reluctantly, relieved to have it over, but a solid, substantial
pleasure.

Martha took the little girl up-stairs and put on a blue delaine frock and
white apron, and polished her "buskins," as the low shoes were called.
Then she went into the parlor and spoke to all the ladies. She had her
lace in a little bag, and presently she sat down on an ottoman and took
out her work.

"You don't mean to say that child can knit lace? And oak-leaf, too, I do
declare! What a smart little girl!"

"Oh, she embroiders quite nicely, also. Hannah Ann, get your apron and
show Cousin Dorcas."

The apron was praised and the handkerchiefs she had marked for her
father were brought out. Then she was asked what she was studying at
school.

Cousin Dorcas was knitting "shells" for a counterpane. There was one of
white and one of red, and they were put together in a rather long
diamond shape with a row of openwork between every block. It was for her
daughter, who was going to be married in the spring, and it interested
the little girl wonderfully.

Then they talked about Steve and Dolly Beekman. While the girls were at
White Plains, Steve had coaxed his father and mother up to the
Beekmans', and the engagement had been settled with all due formality.
Dolly and her mother had been down and taken tea. And now Steve went up
every Sunday afternoon and stayed to supper, and once or twice through
the week, and took Dolly out driving and escorted her to parties.

The Beekmans were good, solid people, and Peggy ought to be satisfied
that Stephen had chosen so wisely. "Was it true that Steve had been
buying some land way out of town? Did he mean to build there?"

"Oh, dear, no!" answered his mother. "It was a crazy thing, but John had
really persuaded him, and John was too young to have any judgment. But
he said the Astors were buying up there, and land was almost given
away."

"I don't know what it's good for," declared Aunt Frasie. "Why it'll be
forty years before the city'll go out there. Well, it may be good for
his grandchildren."

They all gave a little laugh.

Presently another of the cousins sat down at the piano and played the
"Battle of Prague."

Then Aunt Frasie said, "Do sing something. It doesn't seem half like
music without the singing."

Maria Jane ran her fingers over the keys, and began a plaintive air very
much in vogue:

    "Shed not a tear o'er your friend's early bier,
      When I am gone, I am gone."

Aunt Frasie heard her through the first verse, and then said
impatiently:

"You've sung that at so many funerals, Maria Jane, that it makes me feel
creepy. You used to sing 'Banks and Braes.' Do try that."

It had been said of Maria Jane in her earlier years that she had sung
"Bonnie Doon" so pathetically she had moved the roomful to tears. Her
voice was rather thin now, with a touch of shrillness on the high notes,
but the little girl listened entranced. Then she sang "Scots wha' hae"
and "Roy's wife of Aldivaloch." Margaret had come home, the
supper-table was spread, the men came in, and they sat down to the
feast. They teased Steve a little, and bade John beware, and were so
merry all the evening that when it came her bedtime the little girl had
forgotten all about the world coming to an end.

The girls discussed it the next day. Most of their mothers and fathers
had scouted the idea. Josie Dean was very positive it couldn't be--her
father had been going over the Bible and the Millerites had made a big
mistake.

"And girls," said Josie earnestly, "St. John, one of the disciples of
our Saviour, lived to be a hundred years old. Some people taught that
the world would come to an end before he died. And now it's 1843, and
it's stood all this while, though every now and then there's been an
excitement about it. And I ain't going to be afraid at all, there now!"

The little girl wondered whether she would be afraid. But Friday evening
the boys were full of it, and Steve said it was nonsense. She crept up
into her father's lap and asked him in a tremulous whisper if he was
afraid.

"No, dear," he answered, pressing her to his heart.

"But if it should come."

"Well--I'd take my little girl and mother and Margaret----"

"And what would you do?" as he made a long pause.

"I'd beg to be taken into heaven. And we would all be together. I think
God would be good to us."

"And the boys."

"Yes, the boys." He wondered within himself if they were all fit for
heaven. But he was quite sure the little girl was.

There was a very great excitement. For months there had been meetings of
exhortation and prophesying, and appeals to conscience, to terror, to
the desire of being saved from impending destruction. Last winter there
had been revivals everywhere, yet during the summer thoughtful people
had questioned whether the moral tone of the community had been any
higher. There were heroic souls, that always rise to the surface in
times of spiritual agitation. There were others moved by any excitement,
who seized on this with a kind of ungovernable rapture.

No one spoke of it in Sunday-school. Hanny brought home "Little Blind
Lucy," and was so lost in its perusal that she hardly wanted to leave
off for half an hour with Joe. But her mother let her look over to see
whether Lucy really did have her eyesight restored. She was so sleepy
that when she had said her little prayer she felt quite sure that God
would take care of her and the beautiful world He had made. It would be
cruel to burn it all up.

But the children went to school on Monday. Martha washed as usual. She
did think it would be a waste of labor and strength if the world came to
an end, though she was sure clean clothes would burn up quicker, and if
it had to be, one might as well have it over as soon as possible.

All things went on, the buying and selling, the business of the day, and
in some houses there were weary pain-racked bodies that slipped out of
life gently without waiting for the general conflagration.

Still a strange awe did pervade the city. Some of the churches were
open, and people were on their knees weeping and sobbing to be made
ready; others were full of faith and expectations, singing hymns, and
impatiently waiting the moment when the trump would sound and they be
caught up to glory. Down on Grand Street Hester Brown's uncle was giving
away shoes, and wondering at the fatal unbelief of those who were so
ready to accept. Here and there another of abounding faith was doing the
same thing, or perhaps giving away things they did not need, hoping it
would be accounted to them for good works.

Hester was not in school. Neither did she come on Tuesday, and that
night was to be the fatal end of all things. A great many people went to
church that day. The children did suffer from dread, though Lottie
Brower kept up a sort of cheery bravado, as one whistles or sings in the
dark.

"And I don't think Hester's been such an awful sight better than the
rest of us. She answered correct one day when she had talked, and
pretended she had forgotten all about it. And she was just mean enough
about that clover-leaf pattern and wouldn't show a single girl. And she
gets mad just as easy as the rest of us."

"I think we oughtn't get mad any more. And, girls, I'll lend you my
knife to sharpen your pencils. We ought to try to be just as good as
we could, for my Sunday-school teacher said if we died the world came to
an end for us."

They made many resolves. Mrs. Craven thought they had never been so
angelic in their lives.

But the little girl was very much "stirred up."

People didn't say nervous so much in those days. In fact nervousness was
rather associated with whims and tempers. Joe came over to supper--he
could get off from the hospital now and then. They were all talking
about going to Delancey Street Church, where it was said people would
be dressed in their ascension robes, and remain to the final change.

Margaret begged to go, and said she knew all her lessons. The boys had
theirs to study. Jim scouted the idea of the world's coming to an end.
Benny adduced several remarkable reasons why it couldn't come just yet.
The Millerites had made a mistake in the true meaning of the "days" in
Daniel.

"Are you quite sure?" asked the little girl timidly.

"Well--you'll see the same old world next week this time. Don't you get
frightened, Hanny dear," and Ben kissed her reassuringly.

She sat by the boys and knit on her lace a while. Then her mother looked
up from the stockings she was darning. She said "she always took Time by
the forelock," and the little girl had a fancy some time she would drag
him out. She wondered if she would really like to see Time with his
hour-glass and scythe, and all his bones showing.

Mrs. Underhill looked up at the clock.

"My goodness, Hanny!" she exclaimed, "it's time you were in bed half an
hour ago. Put up your lace. You'll be sleepy enough in the morning."

The little girl wound it round her needles and then stuck the ends in
the stem of the spool and put it away in her basket. She kissed Ben and
Jim good-night, and followed her mother. Her eyes had a half-frightened
look and the pupils were very large. Mrs. Underhill felt out of patience
that there should be so much talk about the world coming to an end
before children. She knew Hanny was "just alive with terror." She
couldn't pretend to explain anything to her; she was of the opinion that
as you grew older "you found out things for yourself." And I am really
afraid she didn't believe in total depravity for sweet little girls like
Hanny. It was well enough for boys. So much of her life had been spent
in doing, that she might have neglected some of the "mint, anise, and
cummin." She undressed the little girl. Oh, how fair and pretty her
shoulders were, and her round white arms that had a dimple at the top of
the elbow. She was small for her age, but nice and plump, and her mother
felt just this minute as if she would like to cuddle her up in her arms
and kiss her as she had in babyhood. If she had, all the fear would have
gone out of the little girl's heart.

Hanny said her prayer, and added to it, "Oh, Lord Jesus, please don't
let the world come to an end to-night." Then her mother patted down the
bed, took off one pillow and the pretty top quilt, and put her in,
kissing her tenderly, the little trembling thing.

Then she stood still awhile.

"I do wonder what I did with your red coat," she began. "Cousin Cynthia
said it might be let down and do for this winter. There's no little girl
