for Ta-hinca's splash among the cresses: at such moments the feathered
shaft whistled far from the mark, and Ta-mdóka stamped and snorted
till even the white fisher, stretched on a rotting log, flattened his
whiskers and stole away into the forest's blackest depths.
When the child was a year old, hour for hour notched at sunset and
sunrise, it prattled with the birds, and called to Ne-Kâ, the wild
goose, who called again to the child from the sky: "Northward!
northward, beloved!"
When winter came--there is no frost on the Island of Grief--Ne-Kâ, the
wild goose, passing high in the clouds, called: "Southward! southward,
beloved!" And the child answered in a soft whisper of an unknown
tongue, till the mother shivered, and covered it with her silken hair.
"O beloved!" said the girl, "Chaské calls to all things living--to
Kaug, the porcupine, to Wabóse, to Kay-óshk, the gray gull--he calls,
and they understand."
Kent bent and looked into her eyes.
"Hush, beloved; it is not that I fear."
"Then what, beloved?"
"His shadow. It is white as surf foam. And at night--I--I have seen----"
"Oh, what?"
"The air about him aglow like a pale rose."
"Ma cânté maséca. The earth alone lasts. I speak as one dying--I know,
O beloved!"
Her voice died away like a summer wind.
"Beloved!" he cried.
But there before him she was changing; the air grew misty, and her hair
wavered like shreds of fog, and her slender form swayed, and faded, and
swerved, like the mist above a pond.
In her arms the babe was a figure of mist, rosy, vague as a breath on
a mirror.
"The earth alone lasts. Inâh! It is the end, O beloved!"
The words came from the mist--a mist as formless as the ether--a mist
that drove in and crowded him, that came from the sea, from the clouds,
from the earth at his feet. Faint with terror, he staggered forward
calling, "Beloved! And thou, Chaské, O beloved! Aké u! Aké u!"
Far out at sea a rosy star glimmered an instant in the mist and went
out.
A sea bird screamed, soaring over the waste of fog-smothered waters.
Again he saw the rosy star; it came nearer; its reflection glimmered in
the water.
"Chaské!" he cried.
He heard a voice, dull in the choking mist.
"O beloved, I am here!" he called again.
There was a sound on the shoal, a flicker in the fog, the flare of a
torch, a face white, livid, terrible--the face of the dead.
He fell upon his knees; he closed his eyes and opened them. Tully stood
beside him with a coil of rope.
       
Ihó! Behold the end! The earth alone lasts. The sand, the opal wave on
the golden beach, the sea of sapphire, the dusted starlight, the wind,
and love, shall die. Death also shall die, and lie on the shores of
the skies like the bleached skull there on the Key to Grief, polished,
empty, with its teeth embedded in the sand.
A MATTER OF INTEREST.
A MATTER OF INTEREST.
  He that knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool. Shun
      him.
  He that knows not, and knows that he knows not, is simple. Teach him.
  He that knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep. Wake him.
  He that knows, and knows that he knows, is wise. Follow him.
                                       Arabian Proverb.
I.
Much as I dislike it, I am obliged to include this story in a volume
devoted to fiction: I have attempted to tell it as an absolutely true
story, but until three months ago, when the indisputable proofs were
placed before the British Association by Professor James Holroyd,
I was regarded as an impostor. Now that the Smithsonian Institute
in Washington, the Philadelphia Zoölogical Society, and the Natural
History Museum of New York city, are convinced that the story is
truthful and accurate in every particular, I prefer to tell it my own
way. Professor Holroyd urges me to do this, although Professor Bruce
Stoddard, of Columbia College, is now at work upon a pamphlet, to be
published the latter part of next month, describing scientifically the
extraordinary discovery which, to the shame of the United States, was
first accepted and recognised in England.
Now, having no technical ability concerning the affair in question,
and having no knowledge of either comparative anatomy or zoölogy, I
am perhaps unfitted to tell this story. But the story is true; the
episode occurred under my own eyes--here, within a few hours' sail of
the Battery. And as I was one of the first persons to verify what has
long been a theory among scientists, and, moreover, as the result of
Professor Holroyd's discovery is to be placed on exhibition in Madison
Square Garden on the twentieth of next month, I have decided to tell,
as simply as I am able, exactly what occurred.
I first wrote out the story on April 1, 1896. The North American
Review, the Popular Science Monthly, the Scientific American, Nature,
Forest and Stream, and the Fossiliferous Magazine in turn rejected it;
some curtly informing me that fiction had no place in their columns.
When I attempted to explain that it was not fiction, the editors of
these periodicals either maintained a contemptuous silence, or bluntly
notified me that my literary services and opinions were not desired.
But finally, when several publishers offered to take the story as
fiction, I cut short all negotiations and decided to publish it myself.
Where I am known at all, it is my misfortune to be known as a writer
of fiction. This makes it impossible for me to receive a hearing from a
scientific audience. I regret it bitterly, because now, when it is too
late, I am prepared to prove certain scientific matters of interest,
and to produce the proofs. In this case, however, I am fortunate, for
nobody can dispute the existence of a thing when the bodily proof is
exhibited as evidence.
This is the story; and if I write it as I write fiction, it is because
I do not know how to write it otherwise.
I was walking along the beach below Pine Inlet, on the south shore
of Long Island. The railroad and telegraph station is at West Oyster
Bay. Everybody who has travelled on the Long Island Railroad knows the
station, but few, perhaps, know Pine Inlet. Duck shooters, of course,
are familiar with it; but as there are no hotels there, and nothing
to see except salt meadow, salt creek, and a strip of dune and sand,
the summer-squatting public may probably be unaware of its existence.
The local name for the place is Pine Inlet; the maps give its name as
Sand Point, I believe, but anybody at West Oyster Bay can direct you
to it. Captain McPeek, who keeps the West Oyster Bay House, drives duck
shooters there in winter. It lies five miles southeast from West Oyster
Bay.
I had walked over that afternoon from Captain McPeek's. There was a
reason for my going to Pine Inlet--it embarrasses me to explain it,
but the truth is I meditated writing an ode to the ocean. It was out
of the question to write it in West Oyster Bay, with the whistle of
locomotives in my ears. I knew that Pine Inlet was one of the loneliest
places on the Atlantic coast; it is out of sight of everything except
leagues of gray ocean. Rarely one might make out fishing smacks
drifting across the horizon. Summer squatters never visited it;
sportsmen shunned it, except in winter. Therefore, as I was about to do
a bit of poetry, I thought that Pine Inlet was the spot for the deed.
So I went there.
As I was strolling along the beach, biting my pencil reflectively,
tremendously impressed by the solitude and the solemn thunder of
the surf, a thought occurred to me: how unpleasant it would be if I
suddenly stumbled on a summer boarder. As this joyless impossibility
flitted across my mind, I rounded a bleak sand dune.
A summer girl stood directly in my path.
If I jumped, I think the young lady has pardoned me by this time. She
ought to, because she also started, and said something in a very faint
voice. What she said was "Oh!"
She stared at me as though I had just crawled up out of the sea to bite
her. I don't know what my own expression resembled, but I have been
given to understand it was idiotic.
Now I perceived, after a few moments, that the young lady was
frightened, and I knew I ought to say something civil. So I said, "Are
there any mosquitoes here?"
"No," she replied, with a slight quiver in her voice; "I have only seen
one, and it was biting somebody else."
I looked foolish; the conversation seemed so futile, and the young
lady appeared to be more nervous than before. I had an impulse to say,
"Do not run; I have breakfasted," for she seemed to be meditating a
plunge into the breakers. What I did say was: "I did not know anybody
was here. I do not intend to intrude. I come from Captain McPeek's,
and I am writing an ode to the ocean." After I had said this it seemed
to ring in my ears like, "I come from Table Mountain, and my name is
Truthful James."
I glanced timidly at her.
"She's thinking of the same thing," said I to myself. "What an ass I
must appear!"
However, the young lady seemed to be a trifle reassured. I noticed she
drew a sigh of relief and looked at my shoes. She looked so long that
it made me suspicious, and I also examined my shoes. They seemed to be
fairly respectable.
"I--I am sorry," she said, "but would you mind not walking on the
beach?"
This was sudden. I had intended to retire and leave the beach to her,
but I did not fancy being driven away so abruptly.
"I was about to withdraw, madam," said I, bowing stiffly; "I beg you
will pardon any inconvenience----"
"Dear me!" she cried, "you don't understand. I do not--I would
not think for a moment of asking you to leave Pine Inlet. I merely
ventured to request you to walk on the dunes. I am so afraid that your
footprints may obliterate the impressions that my father is studying."
"Oh!" said I, looking about me as though I had been caught in the
middle of a flower-bed; "really I did not notice any impressions.
Impressions of what--if I may be permitted?"
"I don't know," she said, smiling a little at my awkward pose. "If you
step this way in a straight line you can do no damage."
I did as she bade me. I suppose my movements resembled the gait of
a wet peacock. Possibly they recalled the delicate manœuvres of the
kangaroo. Anyway, she laughed.
This seriously annoyed me. I had been at a disadvantage; I walk well
enough when let alone.
"You can scarcely expect," said I, "that a man absorbed in his own
ideas could notice impressions on the sand. I trust I have obliterated
nothing."
As I said this I looked back at the long line of footprints stretching
away in prospective across the sand. They were my own. How large they
looked! Was that what she was laughing at?
"I wish to explain," she said gravely, looking at the point of her
parasol. "I am very sorry to be obliged to warn you--to ask you to
forego the pleasure of strolling on a beach that does not belong to me.
Perhaps," she continued, in sudden alarm, "perhaps this beach belongs
to you?"
"The beach? Oh, no," I said.
"But--but you were going to write poems about it?"
"Only one--and that does not necessitate owning the beach. I have
observed," said I frankly, "that the people who own nothing write many
poems about it."
She looked at me seriously.
"I write many poems," I added.
She laughed doubtfully.
"Would you rather I went away?" I asked politely.
"I? Why, no--I mean that you may do as you please--except please do not
walk on the beach."
"Then I do not alarm you by my presence?" I inquired. My clothes
were a bit ancient. I wore them shooting, sometimes. "My family is
respectable," I added; and I told her my name.
"Oh! Then you wrote 'Culled Cowslips' and 'Faded Fig-Leaves,' and
you imitate Maeterlinck, and you---- Oh, I know lots of people that
you know;" she cried with every symptom of relief; "and you know my
brother."
"I am the author," said I coldly, "of 'Culled Cowslips,' but 'Faded
Fig-Leaves' was an earlier work, which I no longer recognise, and I
should be grateful to you if you would be kind enough to deny that I
ever imitated Maeterlinck. Possibly," I added, "he imitates me."
"Now, do you know," she said, "I was afraid of you at first? Papa is
digging in the salt meadows nearly a mile away."
It was hard to bear.
"Can you not see," said I, "that I am wearing a shooting coat?"
"I do see--now; but it is so--so old," she pleaded.
"It is a shooting coat all the same," I said bitterly.
She was very quiet, and I saw she was sorry.
"Never mind," I said magnanimously, "you probably are not familiar with
sporting goods. If I knew your name I should ask permission to present
myself."
"Why, I am Daisy Holroyd," she said.
"What! Jack Holroyd's little sister?"
"Little!" she cried.
"I didn't mean that," said I. "You know that your brother and I were
great friends in Paris----"
"I know," she said significantly.
"Ahem! Of course," I said, "Jack and I were inseparable----"
"Except when shut in separate cells," said Miss Holroyd coldly.
This unfeeling allusion to the unfortunate termination of a
Latin-Quarter celebration hurt me.
"The police," said I, "were too officious."
"So Jack says," replied Miss Holroyd demurely.
We had unconsciously moved on along the sand hills, side by side, as we
spoke.
"To think," I repeated, "that I should meet Jack's little----"
"Please," she said, "you are only three years my senior."
She opened the sunshade and tipped it over one shoulder. It was white,
and had spots and posies on it.
"Jack sends us every new book you write," she observed. "I do not
approve of some things you write."
"Modern school," I mumbled.
"That is no excuse," she said severely; "Anthony Trollope didn't do it."
The foam spume from the breakers was drifting across the dunes, and the
little tip-up snipe ran along the beach and teetered and whistled and
spread their white-barred wings for a low, straight flight across the
shingle, only to tip and skeep and sail on again. The salt sea wind
whistled and curled through the crested waves, blowing in perfumed
puffs across thickets of sweet bay and cedar. As we passed through the
crackling juicy-stemmed marsh weed myriads of fiddler crabs raised
their fore-claws in warning and backed away, rustling, through the
reeds, aggressive, protesting.
"Like millions of pigmy Ajaxes defying the lightning," I said.
Miss Holroyd laughed.
"Now I never imagined that authors were clever except in print," she
said.
She was a most extraordinary girl.
"I suppose," she observed after a moment's silence--"I suppose I am
taking you to my father."
"Delighted!" I mumbled. "H'm! I had the honour of meeting Professor
Holroyd in Paris."
"Yes; he bailed you and Jack out," said Miss Holroyd serenely.
The silence was too painful to last.
"Captain McPeek is an interesting man," I said. I spoke more loudly
than I intended; I may have been nervous.
"Yes," said Daisy Holroyd, "but he has a most singular hotel clerk."
"You mean Mr. Frisby?"
"I do."
"Yes," I admitted, "Mr. Frisby is queer. He was once a bill-poster."
"I know it!" exclaimed Daisy Holroyd, with some heat. "He ruins
landscapes whenever he has an opportunity. Do you know that he has a
passion for bill-posting? He has; he posts bills for the pure pleasure
of it, just as you play golf, or tennis, or billiards."
"But he's a hotel clerk now," I said; "nobody employs him to post
bills."
"I know it! He does it all by himself for the pure pleasure of it. Papa
has engaged him to come down here for two weeks, and I dread it," said
the girl.
What Professor Holroyd might want of Frisby I had not the faintest
notion. I suppose Miss Holroyd noticed the bewilderment in my face, for
she laughed, and nodded her head twice.
"Not only Mr. Frisby, but Captain McPeek also," she said.
"You don't mean to say that Captain McPeek is going to close his
hotel!" I exclaimed.
My trunk was there. It contained guarantees of my respectability.
"Oh, no; his wife will keep it open," replied the girl. "Look! you can
see papa now. He's digging."
"Where?" I blurted out.
I remembered Professor Holroyd as a prim, spectacled gentleman, with
close-cut, snowy beard and a clerical allure. The man I saw digging
wore green goggles, a jersey, a battered sou'wester, and hip-boots
of rubber. He was delving in the muck of the salt meadow, his face
streaming with perspiration, his boots and jersey splashed with
unpleasant-looking mud. He glanced up as we approached, shading his
eyes with a sunburnt hand.
"Papa, dear," said Miss Holroyd, "here is Jack's friend, whom you
bailed out of Mazas."
The introduction was startling. I turned crimson with mortification.
The professor was very decent about it; he called me by name at once.
When he said this he looked at his spade. It was clear that he
considered me a nuisance and wished to go on with his digging.
"I suppose," he said, "you are still writing?"
"A little," I replied, trying not to speak sarcastically. My output had
rivaled that of "The Duchess"--in quantity, I mean.
"I seldom read--fiction," he said, looking restlessly at the hole in
the ground.
Miss Holroyd came to my rescue.
"That was a charming story you wrote last," she said. "Papa should read
it--you should, papa; it's all about a fossil."
We both looked narrowly at Miss Holroyd. Her smile was guileless.
"Fossils!" repeated the professor. "Do you care for fossils?"
"Very much," said I.
Now I am not perfectly sure what my object was in lying. I looked at
Daisy Holroyd's dark-fringed eyes. They were very grave.
"Fossils," said I, "are my hobby."
I think Miss Holroyd winced a little at this. I did not care. I went on:
"I have seldom had the opportunity to study the subject, but, as a boy,
I collected flint arrow-heads----"
"Flint arrow-heads!" said the professor coldly.
"Yes; they were the nearest things to fossils obtainable," I replied,
marvelling at my own mendacity.
The professor looked into the hole. I also looked. I could see nothing
in it. "He's digging for fossils," thought I to myself.
"Perhaps," said the professor cautiously, "you might wish to aid me
in a little research--that is to say, if you have an inclination for
fossils." The double-entendre was not lost upon me.
"I have read all your books so eagerly," said I, "that to join you,
to be of service to you in any research, however difficult and trying,
would be an honour and a privilege that I never dared to hope for."
"That," thought I to myself, "will do its own work."
But the professor was still suspicious. How could he help it, when
he remembered Jack's escapades, in which my name was always blended!
Doubtless he was satisfied that my influence on Jack was evil. The
contrary was the case, too.
"Fossils," he said, worrying the edges of the excavation with his
spade, "fossils are not things to be lightly considered."
"No, indeed!" I protested.
"Fossils are the most interesting as well as puzzling things in the
world," said he.
"They are!" I cried enthusiastically.
"But I am not looking for fossils," observed the professor mildly.
This was a facer. I looked at Daisy Holroyd. She bit her lip and fixed
her eyes on the sea. Her eyes were wonderful eyes.
"Did you think I was digging for fossils in a salt meadow?" queried
the professor. "You can have read very little about the subject. I am
digging for something quite different."
I was silent. I knew that my face was a trifle flushed. I longed to
say, "Well, what the devil are you digging for?" but I only stared into
the hole as though hypnotized.
"Captain McPeek and Frisby ought to be here," he said, looking first at
Daisy and then across the meadows.
I ached to ask him why he had subpœnaed Captain McPeek and Frisby.
"They are coming," said Daisy, shading her eyes. "Do you see the speck
on the meadows?"
"It may be a mud hen," said the professor.
"Miss Holroyd is right," I said. "A wagon and team and two men are
coming from the north. There is a dog beside the wagon--it's that
miserable yellow dog of Frisby's."
"Good gracious!" cried the professor, "you don't mean to tell me that
you see all that at such a distance?"
"Why not?" I said.
"I see nothing," he insisted.
"You will see that I'm right, presently," I laughed.
The professor removed his blue goggles and rubbed them, glancing
obliquely at me.
"Haven't you heard what extraordinary eyesight duck shooters have?"
said his daughter, looking back at her father. "Jack says that they can
tell exactly what kind of a duck is flying before most people could see
anything at all in the sky."
"It's true," I said; "it comes to anybody, I fancy, who has had
practice."
The professor regarded me with a new interest. There was inspiration in
his eyes. He turned toward the ocean. For a long time he stared at the
tossing waves on the beach, then he looked far out to where the horizon
met the sea.
"Are there any ducks out there?" he asked at last.
"Yes," said I, scanning the sea, "there are."
He produced a pair of binoculars from his coat-tail pocket, adjusted
them, and raised them to his eyes.
"H'm! What sort of ducks?"
I looked more carefully, holding both hands over my forehead.
"Surf ducks--scoters and widgeon. There is one bufflehead among
them--no, two; the rest are coots," I replied.
"This," cried the professor, "is most astonishing. I have good eyes,
but I can't see a blessed thing without these binoculars!"
"It's not extraordinary," said I; "the surf ducks and coots any novice
might recognise; the widgeon and buffleheads I should not have been
able to name unless they had risen from the water. It is easy to tell
any duck when it is flying, even though it looks no bigger than a black
pin-point."
But the professor insisted that it was marvellous, and he said that I
might render him invaluable service if I would consent to come and camp
at Pine Inlet for a few weeks.
I looked at his daughter, but she turned her back--not exactly in
disdain either. Her back was beautifully moulded. Her gown fitted also.
"Camp out here?" I repeated, pretending to be unpleasantly surprised.
"I do not think he would care to," said Miss Holroyd without turning.
I had not expected that.
"Above all things," said I, in a clear, pleasant voice, "I like to camp
out."
She said nothing.
"It is not exactly camping," said the professor. "Come, you shall see
our conservatory. Daisy, come, dear! you must put on a heavier frock;
it is getting toward sundown."
At that moment, over a near dune, two horses' heads appeared, followed
by two human heads, then a wagon, then a yellow dog.
I turned triumphantly to the professor.
"You are the very man I want," he muttered; "the very man--the very
man."
I looked at Daisy Holroyd. She returned my glance with a defiant little
smile.
"Waal," said Captain McPeek, driving up, "here we be! Git out, Frisby."
Frisby, fat, nervous, and sentimental, hopped out of the cart.
"Come!" said the professor, impatiently moving across the dunes. I
walked with Daisy Holroyd. McPeek and Frisby followed. The yellow dog
walked by himself.
II.
The sun was dipping into the sea as we trudged across the meadows
toward a high dome-shaped dune covered with cedars and thickets of
sweet bay. I saw no sign of habitation among the sand hills. Far as the
eye could reach, nothing broke the gray line of sea and sky save the
squat dunes crowned with stunted cedars.
Then, as we rounded the base of the dune, we almost walked into the
door of a house. My amazement amused Miss Holroyd, and I noticed also
a touch of malice in her pretty eyes. But she said nothing, following
her father into the house, with the slightest possible gesture to me.
Was it invitation, or was it menace?
The house was merely a light wooden frame, covered with some waterproof
stuff that looked like a mixture of rubber and tar. Over this--in
fact, over the whole roof--was pitched an awning of heavy sail-cloth.
I noticed that the house was anchored to the sand by chains, already
rusted red. But this one-storied house was not the only building
nestling in the south shelter of the big dune. A hundred feet away
stood another structure--long, low, also built of wood. It had rows on
rows of round portholes on every side. The ports were fitted with heavy
glass, hinged to swing open if necessary. A single big double door
occupied the front.
Behind this long, low building was still another, a mere shed. Smoke
rose from the sheet-iron chimney. There was somebody moving about
inside the open door.
As I stood gaping at this mushroom hamlet the professor appeared at the
door and asked me to enter. I stepped in at once.
The house was much larger than I had imagined. A straight hallway ran
through the centre from east to west. On either side of this hallway
were rooms, the doors swinging wide open. I counted three doors on each
side; the three on the south appeared to be bedrooms.
The professor ushered me into a room on the north side, where I found
Captain McPeek and Frisby sitting at a table, upon which were drawings
and sketches of articulated animals and fishes.
"You see, McPeek," said the professor, "we only wanted one more man,
and I think I've got him.--Haven't I?" turning eagerly to me.
"Why, yes," I said, laughing; "this is delightful. Am I invited to stay
here?"
"Your bedroom is the third on the south side; everything is ready.
McPeek, you can bring his trunk to-morrow, can't you?" demanded the
professor.
The red-faced captain nodded, and shifted a quid.
"Then it's all settled," said the professor, and he drew a sigh of
satisfaction. "You see," he said, turning to me, "I was at my wit's end
to know whom to trust. I never thought of you. Jack's out in China, and
I didn't dare trust anybody in my own profession. All you care about is
writing verses and stories, isn't it?"
"I like to shoot," I replied mildly.
"Just the thing!" he cried, beaming at us all in turn. "Now I can see
no reason why we should not progress rapidly. McPeek, you and Frisby
must get those boxes up here before dark. Dinner will be ready before
you have finished unloading. Dick, you will wish to go to your room
first."
My name isn't Dick, but he spoke so kindly, and beamed upon me in such
a fatherly manner, that I let it go. I had occasion to correct him
afterward, several times, but he always forgot the next minute. He
calls me Dick to this day.
It was dark when Professor Holroyd, his daughter, and I sat down to
dinner. The room was the same in which I had noticed the drawings of
beast and bird, but the round table had been extended into an oval, and
neatly spread with dainty linen and silver.
A fresh-cheeked Swedish girl appeared from a further room, bearing the
soup. The professor ladled it out, still beaming.
"Now, this is very delightful!--isn't it, Daisy?" he said.
"Very," said Miss Holroyd, with the faintest tinge of irony.
"Very," I repeated heartily; but I looked at my soup when I said it.
"I suppose," said the professor, nodding mysteriously at his daughter,
"that Dick knows nothing of what we're about down here?"
"I suppose," said Miss Holroyd, "that he thinks we are digging for
fossils."
I looked at my plate. She might have spared me that.
"Well, well," said her father, smiling to himself, "he shall know
everything by morning. You'll be astonished, Dick, my boy."
"His name isn't Dick," corrected Daisy.
The professor said, "Isn't it?" in an absent-minded way, and relapsed
into contemplation of my necktie.
I asked Miss Holroyd a few questions about Jack, and was informed that
he had given up law and entered the diplomatic service--as what, I did
not dare ask, for I know what our diplomatic service is.
"In China," said Daisy.
"Choo Choo is the name of the city," added her father proudly; "it's
the terminus of the new trans-Siberian railway."
"It's on the Yellow River," said Daisy.
"He's vice-consul," added the professor triumphantly.
"He'll make a good one," I observed. I knew Jack. I pitied his consul.
So we chatted on about my old playmate, until Freda, the red-cheeked
maid, brought coffee, and the professor lighted a cigar, with a little
bow to his daughter.
"Of course, you don't smoke," she said to me, with a glimmer of malice
in her eyes.
"He mustn't," interposed the professor hastily; "it will make his hand
tremble."
"No, it doesn't," said I, laughing; "but my hand will shake if I don't
smoke. Are you going to employ me as a draughtsman?"
"You'll know to-morrow," he chuckled, with a mysterious smile at his
daughter.--"Daisy, give him my best cigars; put the box here on the
table. We can't afford to have his hand tremble."
Miss Holroyd rose, and crossed the hallway to her father's room,
returning presently with a box of promising-looking cigars.
"I don't think he knows what is good for him," she said. "He should
smoke only one every day."
It was hard to bear. I am not vindictive, but I decided to treasure up
a few of Miss Holroyd's gentle taunts. My intimacy with her brother was
certainly a disadvantage to me now. Jack had apparently been talking
too much, and his sister appeared to be thoroughly acquainted with my
past. It was a disadvantage. I remembered her vaguely as a girl with
long braids, who used to come on Sundays with her father and take tea
with us in our rooms. Then she went to Germany to school, and Jack and
I employed our Sunday evenings otherwise. It is true that I regarded
her weekly visits as a species of infliction, but I did not think I
ever showed it.
"It is strange," said I, "that you did not recognise me at once, Miss
Holroyd. Have I changed so greatly in five years?"
"You wore a pointed French beard in Paris," she said--"a very downy
one. And you never stayed to tea but twice, and then you only spoke
once."
"Oh!" said I blankly. "What did I say?"
"You asked me if I liked plums," said Daisy, bursting into an
irresistible ripple of laughter.
I saw that I must have made the same sort of an ass of myself that most
boys of eighteen do.
It was too bad. I never thought about the future in those days. Who
could have imagined that little Daisy Holroyd would have grown up
into this bewildering young lady? It was really too bad. Presently the
professor retired to his room, carrying with him an armful of drawings,
and bidding us not to sit up late. When he closed his door Miss Holroyd
turned to me.
"Papa will work over those drawings until midnight," she said, with a
despairing smile.
"It isn't good for him," I said. "What are the drawings?"
"You may know to-morrow," she answered, leaning forward on the table
and shading her face with one hand. "Tell me about yourself and Jack in
Paris."
I looked at her suspiciously.
"What! There isn't much to tell. We studied. Jack went to the law
school, and I attended--er--oh, all sorts of schools."
"Did you? Surely you gave yourself a little recreation occasionally?"
"Occasionally," I nodded.
"I am afraid you and Jack studied too hard."
"That may be," said I, looking meek.
"Especially about fossils."
I couldn't stand that.
"Miss Holroyd," I said, "I do care for fossils. You may think that I am
a humbug, but I have a perfect mania for fossils--now."
"Since when?"
"About an hour ago," I said airily. Out of the corner of my eye I saw
that she had flushed up. It pleased me.
"You will soon tire of the experiment," she said with a dangerous smile.
"Oh, I may," I replied indifferently.
She drew back. The movement was scarcely perceptible, but I noticed it,
and she knew I did.
The atmosphere was vaguely hostile. One feels such mental conditions
and changes instantly. I picked up a chessboard, opened it, set up the
pieces with elaborate care, and began to move, first the white, then
the black. Miss Holroyd watched me coldly at first, but after a dozen
moves she became interested and leaned a shade nearer. I moved a black
pawn forward.
"Why do you do that?" said Daisy.
"Because," said I, "the white queen threatens the pawn."
"It was an aggressive move," she insisted.
"Purely defensive," I said. "If her white highness will let the pawn
alone, the pawn will let the queen alone."
Miss Holroyd rested her chin on her wrist and gazed steadily at the
board. She was flushing furiously, but she held her ground.
"If the white queen doesn't block that pawn, the pawn may become
dangerous," she said coldly.
I laughed, and closed up the board with a snap.
"True," I said, "it might even take the queen." After a moment's
silence I asked, "What would you do in that case, Miss Holroyd?"
"I should resign," she said serenely; then realizing what she had said,
she lost her self-possession for a second, and cried: "No, indeed! I
should fight to the bitter end! I mean----"
"What?" I asked, lingering over my revenge.
"I mean," she said slowly, "that your black pawn would never have the
chance--never! I should take it immediately."
"I believe you would," said I, smiling; "so we'll call the game yours,
and--the pawn captured."
"I don't want it," she exclaimed. "A pawn is worthless."
"Except when it's in the king row."
"Chess is most interesting," she observed sedately. She had completely
recovered her self-control. Still I saw that she now had a certain
respect for my defensive powers. It was very soothing to me.
"You know," said I gravely, "that I am fonder of Jack than of anybody.
That's the reason we never write each other, except to borrow things. I
am afraid that when I was a young cub in France I was not an attractive
personality."
"On the contrary," said Daisy, smiling, "I thought you were very big
and very perfect. I had illusions. I wept often when I went home and
remembered that you never took the trouble to speak to me but once."
"I was a cub," I said; "not selfish and brutal, but I didn't understand
schoolgirls. I never had any sisters, and I didn't know what to say to
very young girls. If I had imagined that you felt hurt----"
"Oh, I did--five years ago. Afterward I laughed at the whole thing."
"Laughed?" I repeated, vaguely disappointed.
"Why, of course. I was very easily hurt when I was a child. I think I
have outgrown it."
The soft curve of her sensitive mouth contradicted her.
"Will you forgive me now?" I asked.
"Yes. I had forgotten the whole thing until I met you an hour or so
ago."
There was something that had a ring not entirely genuine in this
speech. I noticed it, but forgot it the next moment.
"Tiger cubs have stripes," said I. "Selfishness blossoms in the cradle,
and prophecy is not difficult. I hope I am not more selfish than my
brothers."
"I hope not," she said, smiling.
Presently she rose, touched her hair with the tip of one finger, and
walked to the door.
"Good-night," she said, courtesying very low.
"Good-night," said I, opening the door for her to pass.
III.
The sea was a sheet of silver, tinged with pink. The tremendous arch of
the sky was all shimmering and glimmering with the promise of the sun.
Already the mist above, flecked with clustered clouds, flushed with
rose colour and dull gold. I heard the low splash of the waves breaking
and curling across the beach. A wandering breeze, fresh and fragrant,
blew the curtains of my window. There was the scent of sweet bay in the
room, and everywhere the subtile, nameless perfume of the sea.
When at last I stood upon the shore, the air and sea were all aglimmer
in a rosy light, deepening to crimson in the zenith. Along the beach I
saw a little cove, shelving and all ashine, where shallow waves washed
with a mellow sound. Fine as dusted gold the shingle glowed, and the
thin film of water rose, receded, crept up again a little higher, and
again flowed back, with the low hiss of snowy foam and gilded bubbles
breaking.
I stood a little while quiet, my eyes upon the water, the invitation of
the ocean in my ears, vague and sweet as the murmur of a shell. Then I
looked at my bathing suit and towels.
"In we go!" said I aloud. A second later the prophecy was fulfilled.
I swam far out to sea, and as I swam the waters all around me turned to
gold. The sun had risen.
There is a fragrance in the sea at dawn that none can name. Whitethorn
abloom in May, sedges asway, and scented rushes rustling in an inland
wind recall the sea to me--I can't say why.
Far out at sea I raised myself, swung around, dived, and set out again
for shore, striking strong strokes until the flecked foam flew. And
when at last I shot through the breakers, I laughed aloud and sprang
upon the beach, breathless and happy. Then from the ocean came another
cry, clear, joyous, and a white arm rose in the air.
She came drifting in with the waves like a white sea-sprite, laughing
at me from her tangled hair, and I plunged into the breakers again to
join her.
Side by side we swam along the coast, just outside the breakers, until
in the next cove we saw the flutter of her maid's cap strings.
"I will beat you to breakfast!" she cried, as I rested, watching her
glide up along the beach.
"Done!" said I--"for a sea-shell!"
"Done!" she called across the water.
I made good speed along the shore, and I was not long in dressing,
but when I entered the dining-room she was there, demure, smiling,
exquisite in her cool, white frock.
"The sea-shell is yours," said I. "I hope I can find one with a pearl
in it."
The professor hurried in before she could reply. He greeted me very
cordially, but there was an abstracted air about him, and he called me
Dick until I recognised that remonstrance was useless. He was not long
over his coffee and rolls.
"McPeek and Frisby will return with the last load, including your
trunk, by early afternoon," he said, rising and picking up his bundle
of drawings. "I haven't time to explain to you what we are doing,
Dick, but Daisy will take you about and instruct you. She will give
you the rifle standing in my room--it's a good Winchester. I have
sent for an 'Express' for you, big enough to knock over any elephant
in India.--Daisy, take him through the sheds and tell him everything.
Luncheon is at noon.--Do you usually take luncheon, Dick?"
"When I am permitted," I smiled.
"Well," said the professor doubtfully, "you mustn't come back here
for it. Freda can take you what you want. Is your hand unsteady after
eating?"
"Why, papa!" said Daisy. "Do you intend to starve him?"
We all laughed.
The professor tucked his drawings into a capacious pocket, pulled his
sea boots up to his hips, seized a spade, and left, nodding to us as
though he were thinking of something else.
We went to the door and watched him across the salt meadows until a
distant sand dune hid him.
"Come," said Daisy Holroyd, "I am going to take you to the shop."
She put on a broad-brimmed straw hat, a distractingly pretty
combination of filmy cool stuffs, and led the way to the long low
structure that I had noticed the evening before.
The interior was lighted by the numberless little portholes, and I
could see everything plainly. I acknowledge I was nonplussed by what I
did see.
In the centre of the shed, which must have been at least a hundred feet
long, stood what I thought at first was the skeleton of an enormous
whale. After a moment's silent contemplation of the thing I saw that
it could not be a whale, for the frames of two gigantic bat-like wings
rose from each shoulder. Also I noticed that the animal possessed
legs--four of them--with most unpleasant-looking webbed claws fully
eight feet long. The bony framework of the head, too, resembled
something between a crocodile and a monstrous snapping turtle.
The walls of the shanty were hung with drawings and blue prints. A
man dressed in white linen was tinkering with the vertebræ of the
lizardlike tail.
"Where on earth did such a reptile come from?" I asked at length.
"Oh, it's not real!" said Daisy scornfully; "it's papier-maché."
"I see," said I--"a stage prop."
"A what?" asked Daisy, in hurt astonishment.
"Why, a--a sort of Siegfried dragon--a what's-his-name--er, Pfafner, or
Peffer, or----"
"If my father heard you say such things he would dislike you," said
Daisy. She looked grieved, and moved toward the door. I apologized--for
what, I knew not--and we became reconciled. She ran into her father's
room and brought me the rifle, a very good Winchester. She also gave me
a cartridge belt, full.
"Now," she smiled, "I shall take you to your observatory, and when we
arrive you are to begin your duty at once."
"And that duty?" I ventured, shouldering the rifle.
"That duty is, to watch the ocean. I shall then explain the whole
affair--but you mustn't look at me while I speak; you must watch the
sea."
"This," said I, "is hardship. I had rather go without the luncheon."
I do not think she was offended at my speech; still she frowned for
almost three seconds.
We passed through acres of sweet bay and spear grass, sometimes
skirting thickets of twisted cedars, sometimes walking in the full
glare of the morning sun, sinking into shifting sand where sun-scorched
shells crackled under our feet, and sun-browned seaweed glistened,
bronzed and iridescent. Then, as we climbed a little hill, the sea wind
freshened in our faces, and lo! the ocean lay below us, far-stretching
as the eye could reach, glittering, magnificent.
Daisy sat down flat on the sand. It takes a clever girl to do that and
retain the respectful deference due her from men. It takes a graceful
girl to accomplish it triumphantly when a man is looking.
"You must sit beside me," she said--as though it would prove irksome to
me.
"Now," she continued, "you must watch the water while I am talking."
I nodded.
"Why don't you do it, then?" she asked.
I succeeded in wrenching my head toward the ocean, although I felt sure
it would swing gradually round again in spite of me.
"To begin with," said Daisy Holroyd, "there's a thing in that ocean
that would astonish you if you saw it. Turn your head!"
"I am," I said meekly.
"Did you hear what I said?"
"Yes--er--a thing in the ocean that's going to astonish me." Visions of
mermaids rose before me.
"The thing," said Daisy, "is a Thermosaurus!"
I nodded vaguely, as though anticipating a delightful introduction to
a nautical friend.
"You don't seem astonished," she said reproachfully.
"Why should I be?" I asked.
"Please turn your eyes toward the water. Suppose a Thermosaurus should
look out of the waves!"
"Well," said I, "in that case the pleasure would be mutual."
She frowned, and bit her upper lip.
"Do you know what a Thermosaurus is?" she asked.
"If I am to guess," said I, "I guess it's a jellyfish."
"It's that big, ugly, horrible creature that I showed you in the shed!"
cried Daisy impatiently.
"Eh!" I stammered.
"Not papier-maché either," she continued excitedly; "it's a real one."
This was pleasant news. I glanced instinctively at my rifle and then at
the ocean.
"Well," said I at last, "it strikes me that you and I resemble a pair
of Andromedas waiting to be swallowed. This rifle won't stop a beast,
a live beast, like that Nibelungen dragon of yours."
"Yes, it will," she said; "it's not an ordinary rifle."
Then, for the first time, I noticed, just below the magazine, a
cylindrical attachment that was strange to me.
"Now, if you will watch the sea very carefully, and will promise not to
look at me," said Daisy, "I will try to explain."
She did not wait for me to promise, but went on eagerly, a sparkle of
excitement in her blue eyes:
"You know, of all the fossil remains of the great bat-like and
lizard-like creatures that inhabited the earth ages and ages ago,
the bones of the gigantic saurians are the most interesting. I think
they used to splash about the water and fly over the land during the
Carboniferous period; anyway, it doesn't matter. Of course, you have
seen pictures of reconstructed creatures such as the Ichthyosaurus, the
Plesiosaurus, the Anthracosaurus, and the Thermosaurus?"
I nodded, trying to keep my eyes from hers.
"And you know that the remains of the Thermosaurus were first
discovered and reconstructed by papa?"
"Yes," said I. There was no use in saying no.
"I am glad you do. Now, papa has proved that this creature lived
entirely in the Gulf Stream, emerging for occasional flights across an
ocean or two. Can you imagine how he proved it?"
"No," said I, resolutely pointing my nose at the ocean.
"He proved it by a minute examination of the microscopical shells
found among the ribs of the Thermosaurus. These shells contained little
creatures that live only in the warm waters of the Gulf Stream. They
were the food of the Thermosaurus."
"It was rather slender rations for a thing like that, wasn't it? Did he
ever swallow bigger food--er--men?"
"Oh, yes. Tons of fossil bones from prehistoric men are also found in
