I am sure neither law nor gospel would forbid 
me to claim as my very own ; and that is the 
 

letter received from him a few days after my 
marriage. It was one of the first as it was 
one of the kindest to reach us. I cannot 
give it entire, but extract : 

" You have made me cry a great many 
times. Now you make me smile with gratifi 
cation to know that you are anchored in that 
happy haven where the highest blessings of 
life are to be found by those who are fitted for 
its manifold experiences. 

" I hope the gates of yours will never be 
ajar, but always wide open to all old friend 
ships and all good influences, and always closed 
against every ill from which your earthly lot 
can be protected. 

" My wishes for you are very many, my 
prayers are very brief, but they overflow with 
the sincerest desire for your happiness in this 
world for which you have done so much, and 
in that other into which you have looked with 
clearer eyes than ours." 

The last time that he came to see us was in 
Gloucester, a year and a half, I think, before 
he died. Our little house had been moved 
since his last visit, and I tried to show him 
certain of the best changes in the landscape. 
He tried, politely, but it was pitifully evident 
that he could not see beyond the bright marsh 
colors in the autumn light just outside our gate. 
 

The horizon of the sea, I am sure, was quite 
beyond his fading eyes. 

We begged him to try to get out from town 
and see our winter home in Newton, where we 
cherish some remarkable scenery : but he shook 
his head, pathetically, without speaking. After 
a moment's silence, he touched his eyes. " I 
could not see it/ he said. " There is no more 
new scenery for me till I see the outlines of 
the Eternal City." 

I saw him after this but twice, once at the 
table of our best of friends and publishers, Mr. 
Houghton I wonder, have they seen each 
other by this time, in the New Country ? 
where I thought him more than usually quiet ; 
either ill or sad ; but doing his best to give 
the bright wine of thought that was always 
expected of Doctor Holmes in society. And, 
by the way, how truly he loved it ! 

" I have," he said to me once, " what I call 
my dinner-table intimacies. I enjoy them 
very much." 

My last look at him was in his own study, 
overlooking the silver-gray color of Charles 
River, on a winter afternoon. We talked 
much in the old way but more soberly, and 
ever more gently. His soul seemed to be 
brimming over with kindness to every form of 
life in this world, and in the world beyond. 


Even the Andover schoolmaster was forgiven 
and forgotten. Of Andover theology he had 
now nothing to say. His heart seemed to be 
melting with tenderness, with desire to give 
happiness and to spare pain; and he like one 
who waited, without regret or disturbance, the 
summons to that 

" Love Divine that stooped to share 
Our sharpest pang, our bitterest tear." 

He insisted on coming downstairs with me 
when I left ; he took my hand silently ; upon 
his face was the look which only the aged 
wear, when they part from younger friends ; 
as if he dared not say, " It is the last time ; " 
but knew it, though I did not. 


FOR many years one of the brightest figures 
in literary Boston, was Celia Thaxter. 

She had, if not more leisure, perhaps more 
temperament and, at all events, more strength 
for social life than some others of the group ; 
and she was always sure of a welcome which, 
in itself, was a great temptation to earn it. 
She was the best of good company. Every 
body wanted her. Hearty, happy, wholesome, 
she rose through a decorous drawing-room or 
sedate library, like a breeze from her own 
island waves. When she had gone, one felt as 
if an East wind had suddenly died down. 

She was the most fearless, the most independent 
of beings. It mattered little to her what 
other people did or thought ; at least, on 
secondary subjects. She was never afraid to be her 
self. To certain modulations of manner she 
never consented. " Celia Thaxter's laugh " is 
well remembered. No subdued and conventional 
mirth softly rippled from her broad chest 
and honest larynx. When she laughed, she 
pealed. This merry ring was infectious. It 
was as impossible to hear it, and not laugh too, 
as it is for the feet that love dance music to 
keep still before it. She was the incarnation of 
good spirits. 

Her vigorous physique had much to do with 
this, for she had her share of the sorrows of 
life. These she bore characteristically, with 
out much complaint, with some suppressed 
cynicism, and with that bubbling faith in 
brighter futures so easy to the sanguine nature. 

I knew her as one does a comrade with whom 
one is never intimate ; but whom one regards 
affectionately, and whose history one makes 
guesses at, or forms opinions of, from a definite 
distance. I do not offer of her, in any sense, 
the reminiscences of a confidential friend. 

Once, I remember, I vexed her by something 
in a letter which I wrote her apropos of a religious 
discussion that we had held, in an interrupted 
form. She was then at the bitterest turn in 
the long avenue that leads through defiance to 
acceptance of religious truth. But she forgave 
me, I think, I am sure I did her, and I 
am very sure that in the later years of her life 
she would have given the plea of any Christian 
a different reception. I did not know her 

intimately enough to say just how far the 
growth of her religious character carried her, in 
intellectual form, and I have no right to mark 
its boundaries. But I think the longing for it 
was always in her. 

"If I believed as you do," she said to me 
once, fiercely, " nothing would daunt me ! 
Nothing would daunt me ! " 

I was present one day when she was describ 
ing to a .little group a wreck off Appledore : 
how she sat at her window, watching one of the 
cruelest gales of the midwinter Atlantic gather 
its forces. The breakers upon her own rocks 
were at their worst. A solitary sail blurred 
on the racing horizon, and beat up ; the vessel 
struck on the reef, and broke to pieces. The 
Islands were helpless to help. It was impossible
to extend an oar. Watchers on that little 
spot of life could only sit and see the game of 
death go on : it was not a snarl and a snap, 
but a slow torture. For the crew had hung and 
clung to the teeth of a rock around which the 
whirlpool played ; and there their distant figures, 
drenched and drowning, pleaded for their 
lives in the sight of the warm-hearted woman 
who could only watch them slip and drop off, 
one by one. 

I think she said they clung there for five 
hours before they surrendered to the sea. 
 

When Mrs. Thaxter had told the story in her 
own inimitable manner, with the vividness of 
vitriol she lifted her eyes, flung them straight 
at mine, with the dreariest look that I ever saw 
on the face of any doubter in the darkest den of 
despair. 

" Fools to cling ! " she cried. " They were 
fools fools to cling ! " 

I have never been one of those fortunate 
people who have their happy thoughts at 
tongue's end ; my repartees are apt to wait for 
my pen ; else I should have answered her : 

" Philosophers to cling ! While there is 
hope of life eternal, the saddest mortal life is 
worth the living. Philosophers to cling ! " 

It is a pleasant thought to me that this gifted 
woman, with the luxurious heart and the eager 
brain, was herself philosopher enough to cling, 
until a distinct measure of spiritual light and 
peace came to her later on. 

She was full of a certain wit, or perhaps 
more exactly, humor, which was native to her 
self, and strong of the salt of her own sea 
weeds. 

One day, I remember, she sat painting china 
which she did after a graceful and original 
fashion when some one present ventured a 
commonplace about the delights of her island 
life : its solitude, its peacefulness, its 
opportunities to study nature, and so on. It was in win 
ter, and it was snowing. She looked out of the 
window into the clashing Boston street, then 
threw back her head, and laughed out long and 
joyously. 

" Did you ever try it ? " she said ; " I've had 
enough of the wilderness. Give me a horse- 
car!" 

Mrs. Thaxter was of attractive personal 
appearance, retaining some suggestion of the 
beauty for which she was distinguished in her 
first youth ; when, betrothed as a mere child, 
and a bride at sixteen, the Miranda of the 
Shoals wedded the first man whom she had 
known, and ventured upon the mainland of life 
at the age when, if she had been a girl of our 
day under the usual conditions, she would have 
been preparing to " come out," or fitting for 
college. 

Like a pale purple aster beside a gorgeous 
golden-rod, the sweet wraith of Lucy Larcom 
flits in beside that of Mrs. Thaxter in my 
memory. 

It falls away again quickly, for I saw Miss 
Larcom but seldom : I knew her chiefly through 
her letters, which reached me at irregular in 
tervals. I had the sincerest respect both for her 
personality and for her work. One of the ex- 
 editors of the " Atlantic Monthly," himself a 
brilliant writer, once reviewed a book of hers in 
these words : 

" There is something in this volume which 
we do not mind calling genius." 

She was not a woman to mind being " called 
names " in this fashion ; but undoubtedly had 
her laugh out, with the editor, at this clever 
turn of words. 

The value of her work is beyond question : 
the strength of it continually surprises one who 
is, from the surface, chiefly impressed with her 
gentleness of spirit. 

She was always more or less in the thick of 
a struggle for existence ; life was never easy to 
her, but she gave ease to it. There was a kind 
of comfortableness about her, which, I think, 
impressed me more than anything else in her 
personality. Miss Larcom had a fine presence. 
She was large and well-proportioned, and had 
a certain sort of handsomeness. The well- 
known picture of her in the bonnet is the best 
that I have ever seen. 

She had absolute simplicity of manner ; I 
never saw in her a trace of either embarrass 
ment or elaboration, much less of affectation. 
She was a motherly-looking woman. A stran 
ger might have guessed her to be in the pro 
cess of putting several boys through college ; 

not in the least worried about their debts, and 
never nagging them about their scrapes. 

This ease of nature sometimes led to a little 
dreaminess, or absence of practical attention, 
of which her friends were laughingly and lov 
ingly aware. There is a story told of a ride 
that she took with Mr. Whittier I cannot 
now recall it in his precise words. 

The hill was steep, Mr. Whittier was driving. 
The horse was gay. The load on the lady's 
side, at least was not light. Lucy Larcom 
was talking, and she talked on. I think the 
subject was the life to come. At all events, it 
was some abstract theme, grave and high. 

The horse grew unruly. The buggy lurched 
and rolled. Whittier grasped the reins valiantly, 
anticipating a possible accident, and 
centring his being on the emergency. But 
Lucy talked on serenely. * 

The horse threatened to break. The dan 
ger redoubled. The buggy sagged heavily, on 
Lucy's side. Still, peacefully she murmured 
on. 

" Lucy ! " exploded the poet, at last. " Lucy ! 
If thee does not stop talking till I get this 
horse in hand, thee will be in heaven before 
thee wants to ! " 

There was in those days in Boston a dear 
 

old lady living " all alone in a shoe," one 
might say, so narrow was her home ; she was 
seldom seen in society, but was valuable to it, 
accordingly. I saw her only twice, but she impressed
me as a strong and lofty personality, 
so far above the usual social human being that 
her solitude and the sparseness of her environment
seemed to partake of the character of 
luxuries which most of us were unfit to share. 

This was Lydia Maria Child. Some thought 
ful hostess I think it was Mrs. Fields took 
me one day to call on Mrs. Child. At that 
time this distinguished abolitionist was occupy 
ing lodgings so plain, in a quarter of Boston 
so much less than fashionable, that I felt a cer 
tain awe upon me, as if I were visiting a mar 
tyr in prison. There was no exaggeration in 
this feeling, when one remembered that this 
woman's life had been one long suppression 
of self, and obliteration of that background of 
personal comfort which the rest of us con 
sider essential to our own portraits. It is well 
known that Mrs. Child sacrificed the prospect 
of a brilliant literary future to her convictions 
in the movement for freeing the American 
slaves. 

It is not so well known that she had all her 
life expended such means as she had in private 
charities, denying herself every luxury 

and many common comforts, in order to 
compass the power to relieve or to prevent 
suffering. 

We climbed the steep stairs of her boarding- 
house thoughtfully. Each one of them meant 
some generous check which Mrs. Child had 
drawn for the benefit of something or some 
body, choosing this restricted life as the price 
of her beneficence. 

She received us in a little sitting-room which 
seemed to me dreariness personified. Every 
thing was neat, respectable, and orderly ; but 
the paucity of that interior contrasted sadly 
with the rich nature of its occupant. 

I particularly remember the tint of the 
carpet a lifeless brown. The room was so de 
void of color as to seem like a cell ; and the 
winter day had been a dark one. 

As we sat talking, the sun battled through 
the clouds, and then we saw that Mrs. Child 
had "the afternoon side" of her boarding- 
house, and knew how to make the most of it. 
She rose quickly and, taking a little prism 
which she evidently treasured, hung it in the 
window so that it caught the southwestern ray. 

Instantly the colorless room leaped with 

rainbows. The sweet old lady stood smiling, 

in the midst of them ; she directed them this 

way and that, and threw them all over the 

 

empty spaces and plain furniture. She had, I 
thought, a little in her mind, the consciousness 
of my companion's own beautiful library and 
richly endowed life. It was as if she said, 
" You see I have not much to offer ; but I give 
you of my best." 

This dedicated woman had no luxuries, nei 
ther upholstery nor bric-a-brac, as accessories 
to her peaceful welcome ; only God's sun 
shine, and the rainbows that she knew how to 
make out of it. 

I never see a prism without thinking of her 
noble life ; and I keep one in my study 
windows to this day, partly in memory of this 
beautiful and pathetic incident. It did me 
good, and I do not want to forget it. 

Mrs. Child, at our request, talked about her 
anti-slavery experiences. These moved me very 
much. But I find that the thing which 
impressed me most, and has stayed with me 
longest, was this. 

" How did you know ? " one of us asked, 
" in the midst of so much doubt and danger, 
and possible fraud how did you always know 
just whom and where to trust, when these 
fugitives appealed to you for help ? " 

" Oh ! " she said, " there was a pass-word. 
It carried any escaping slave through the 
underground railway, to safety. Sometimes it 


was written on a slip of torn, soiled paper. 
Sometimes it was only whispered for dear life's 
sake. But any colored person who came to us 
with that pass-word was received and passed 
on without a question. It carried him any 
where, and gave him every chance that we 
could command." 

She paused, and looked at the rainbows in 
the lodging-house window dreamily. Her heart 
had gone far back. 

" What was the pass-word ? " we ventured 
to urge. 

" / was a stranger and ye took Me in," softly 
said the old abolitionist. 

There was one man in Boston of whom no 
body ever saw enough ; and I almost too little 
to offer what I have kept of his great memory. 

My acquaintance with Phillips Brooks was 
rather one of friendliness than of friendship ; 
which is a large word, and one demanding 
conscientious interpretation, especially in the 
case of a man in manner so genial to hundreds, 
and at heart so reserved from all but a few. 
Yet the more vivid recollections of him which 
come to my pen seem, at least to me, to have 
almost too much value to be lost ; and I 
venture to insert one or two of them here. 

I met Dr. Brooks only now and then ; and 
 

his letters were brief, -and usually concerned 
some deed or impulse of mercy or of profes 
sional service. My recollections of him, such 
as they are, I find to be either definitely of 
a grave and religious nature, or sparkling 
with social gayety one of the two extremes. 
I do not recall him at all in what I once 
heard called " a comfortable, middling view of 
things." 

In conversation he was one of the merriest 
of entertainers. Sometimes I used to think 
him almost too ready to let the occasion float 
away in jest, while I, like so many others, 
would have chosen to sound with him some 
theme of height or depth ; but of course one 
can readily understand how weary his nerve 
might have become of the seriousness of life, 
and how much it needed " the light touch." 

For this reason, perhaps, the occasions in 
which the man revealed himself with power 
and solemnity are more distinct in my mind. 

Once, I had asked a favor of him : that he 
would receive a little friend of mine, a sweet 
lassie, Who had listened to his preaching till 
her heart had chosen him for her priest. She 
was scarcely more than a child, but not at all 
a common one ; her need was genuine, and 
not to be confounded with a girl's mere hero- 
worship for a popular preacher. In his own 


hearty way he welcomed her to his house, 
whither it was expected that I would accom 
pany her. I did so ; occupying myself, I 
remember, with a pile of fresh galleys in another 
room, while the child went into the preacher's 
study. 

"We will stay," I said, "but ten minutes. 
Send her out to me when the time is up." 

Fifteen minutes passed a half hour my 
proof-sheets were all corrected before the cler 
gyman came out with the child. He had given 
her the heart of the morning, his working-time. 
Who knows what the little maiden's spirit 
needed and received of the great preacher's ? 
For the child died before another winter fell. 
Did that strong, priestly heart prepare her for 
the new life neither knowing why she had 
sought, or he had given, the strength to take 
the last, short steps ? 

I turned to speak to them, as the pastor and 
parishioner came out of the study ; but one 
glance stopped the words upon my lips. The 
tears were falling down his face, unchecked, 
unnoticed. He could not speak, and did not 
try ; but solemnly handed the little maiden to 
my charge, and I left without a word. 

Afterwards, when her little, lovely life came 
to its sharp end, I wrote to tell him. His
reply indicated that the interview had made as 
 

deep an impression upon him as the witness of 
it had left upon me. 

The last time that I saw Mr. Brooks to 
speak with him, was at a memorable crisis in 
his history. It was close upon the date of his 
acceptance of the Bishopric of Massachusetts ; 
but this fact was not yet generally known. 
The movement of his own mind at the time, 
while his decision to leave Trinity Church for 
ever was still seething, was as solemn as 
prayer. 

If one had any doubt of this, the sight of 
the man, on the occasion to which I refer, 
would have made it clear to the dullest 
perception. 

We were at lunch, four of us, Mr. 
Brooks, Doctor Holmes, Mr. Ward and myself, 
with friends whose hospitality is expert in the 
art of selecting the difficult and delightful num 
ber of guests which is more than the graces, 
but less than the muses. 

Mr. Brooks was very quiet at first almost 
silent ; and it seemed to my slight, social
experience with him, unprecedentedly sober. But 
Doctor Holmes's conversational genius soon 
struck the sparks from the smouldering fire in 
the preacher's heart, and the two men began to 
talk. The rest of us held the breath to listen, 
as our hostess, with her distinguished tact, 


stirred the flame when she would ; and one of 
the most remarkable conversations which I 
ever heard, followed. 

On Mr. Brooks's part, this was more than 
grave, it was devout almost to the point 
of exhortation or prophecy. Doctor Holmes 
played with the great stream of religious feel 
ing for a few moments, but he quickly and 
reverently swung himself along with it : I shall 
never forget the expression with which he 
regarded Mr. Brooks. It was one of unalloyed 
trust and admiration ; at moments it had a 
beautiful wistfulness, as if he might have 
said : 

" Of course, you know I can't altogether  
agree with you ; but you almost make me 
wish I could ! " 

As the talk deepened, Mr. Brooks roused 
and raised himself and us to one of those rare 
altitudes of which one always says afterwards, 
" It was good to be there." 

He began to talk about the duties of the 

upper to the lower classes of society, and of 

the Christian to the irreligious. He spoke 

rapidly, then earnestly, then eagerly, hotly, 

, without fear and without reproach, like the 

Christian Bayard that he was. At the last, he 

pushed on into monologue a thing I never 

heard him do before ; and no one, not even 

 

the king of Boston conversers, cared to
interrupt him. 

The preacher's eyes burned over our heads 
into the peaceful perspective of Charles River ; 
his voice took on the priestly ring ; he seemed 
to hear the orders of authority " we could not 
hear," and to see visions which "we might not 
see." He scathed the fashionable classes for 
their follies, and flung a kind of holy scorn at 
the paltriness and cowardice which excused 
itself from contact with the suffering and the 
loathsomeness of the lower world. 

To my surprise, he spoke of the Salvation 
Army in language of deep respect. He honored 
its work. He prophesied heartily for its 
future. He spoke contemptuously of the 
nervousness of people of ease about infection in 
clothing brought from the sweat-shops, and 
from homes whose horrors few of us troubled 
a heart-throb to alleviate. With sacred indignation
he rebuked the heathen of the West 
End, who cared neither for their own souls 
nor for those of other men. He scored world- 
liness of heart and life in a lofty denunciation, 
to which it was impossible to offer a protesting 
word. 

He mentioned, by name, a certain fashion 
able men's club on the Back Bay. 

"The Salvation Army," he cried, "ought 


to be sent there. Nobody needs them more. 
They ought to go right through such a place 
as that, and preach New Testament religion ! " 

At this point, Doctor Holmes suggested, in 
a subdued voice : 

" But, Doctor Brooks, such men as those are 
not going to listen to the Salvation Army. It 
seems to me that you are the man to go into 
the Club, and preach Christianity." 

Mr. Brooks made no reply. The rest of us 
took the thought up, and urged him a little. 
But he fell into a silence, so sad that it was 
impossible to break it. His gaze wandered 
from us, solemnly. Was he renewing the con 
flict of soul which must have preceded his de 
termination to leave the pastorate of his loved 
and loving people ? Was he heartsick with his 
own great ideal of what a Christian teacher 
might achieve and must forever fail to ? Was 
he thinking of his limits in the light of his 
aspirations ? He talked no more. In a few 
moments he abruptly and silently left us. 

I was once talking with a man of well-known 
gifts and power who is a pronounced unbeliever 
in Christianity, indeed, a free-thinker of a 
confirmed type. In answer to some personal 
plea of mine for the rationality of faith,
he exclaimed : 

" A Christian ? If If I were to be a Christian 
I should have to be why, I should have 
to be such a man as Phillips Brooks ! " 

That instinctive reverence in the man of 
this world for the man of the other I have 
always called the finest tribute to Mr. Brooks 
that I have ever heard. 

One of the pleasant est recollections which 
I have of Phillips Brooks is not at all con 
nected with Boston, but brings me to my life at 
Gloucester, and will be given later in this 
fragmentary story, which is now well overdue at 
my own summer home upon the rough shores 
of Cape Ann. 

It fell to me, rather early in life, to try 
one of those experiments at home-making for 
one's self in which unmarried women venture 
less often, I think, than would be good for 
them and for society at large. My father's 
absence from Andover in search of his lost 
health having become a settled part of the 
summer programmes, I pursued, for a while, 
the usual career of summer boarder. The 
usual restlessness for " higher things "
resulted. 

I had engaged rooms, one summer, upon 

the other side of Cape Ann, privately known 

to its North Shore residents as the Pacific 

Ocean, meaning thereby the region of Ipswich 



Bay. Our quarters were far from the sea, in 
the thick of a village, and opposite a grammar 
school. I bore it for a week, and then, one 
desperate day, I started upon an exploring 
expedition. We drove on for seven miles, cross 
ing the noisiest and dustiest and fishiest of 
little cities, without enthusiasm. Gloucester, 
as to her business sections, did not prove al 
luring, but we pushed on eastward down her 
harbor shore. 

Suddenly, at the end of our journey, hot, 
dusty and discouraged, toiling up what is known 
as Patch's Hill, we brought our tired pony to a 
halt, and drew the breath of unexpected and 
undreamed-of delight. We had discovered 
Eastern Point. 

Out of the salt dust, out of the narrow, 
scorching streets, by the fish-flakes and the 
fish-teams, past the rude roads whose boulders 
seemed to have been only " spatted " down by 
the whimsical street-commissioner, Time, we 
came upon the fairest face of all the New 
England coast, the Eastern side of Gloucester 
Harbor. 

The traveling American, who has seen the 
world, often tells me that here is one of the 
most beautiful scenes upon the whole round 
face of it. On this point I am not authorized 
by experience to testify ; but my private 
convictions are that it would not be easy to find a 
lovelier bit of coast survey. 

There is a nook known as Wonson's ; it was 
then a sheltered, peaceful spot, scarcely 
devastated by the tramp of the summer boarder, and 
so undisturbed that I only knew when callers 
came because the chickens ran past the window 
to get away from them. 

A cottage with its feet in the water and its 
eyes on the harbor received me ; and there, 
close upon the gorge with the lava trap, and 
glancing over the little beach where the north 
west gales clear out the cool dashes of green 
and purple and bronze, and where mast and 
mainsail cut brown and sharp against the gold 
beyond Ten Pound Island, and the towers of 
old Gloucester (called by architects picturesque 
for America) rise against the sunset, I spent 
the preliminary summers which made me slave 
to Gloucester shore for life. The result was 
the chalet known to my " kind readers " as 
The Old Maids Paradise. 

This I built, and there I lived from May to 
November, or nearly that. The waves played 
almost to my door ; in winter the spray dashed 
upon the piazza. The fishermen, my neighbors, 
drew up their dories upon the rocks in front of 
me ; the foreground was marked by lobster- 
pots, and nets spread upon the scanty grass to 


dry or to mend. The fishermen's children 
who could hold an oar at the age of three, and 
whom I have seen placed by their fathers sit 
ting straight in the stern of a dory when they 
were three months old played over my rocks, 
or brought me blue-tipped innocence and white 
violets every year when I returned. 

"You come up with the spring flowers," 
prettily said one imaginative little neighbor, a 
fisherman's daughter. 

Opposite my study windows, cruel and beau 
tiful as any siren of fable, ran the reef of
Norman's Woe. 

