slabs with their upper ends tapered to the shape of a carving- 
knife point ; in fact, the early voyager, ignorant of their great 
height, might have mistaken them for a rusty old rank of piles 
that had sagged this way and that out of the perpendicular. 
The Peninsula is lofty, rocky, and densely clothed with 
scrub, or brush, or both. It is joined to the main by a low 
neck. At this junction was formerly a convict station called 
Port Arthur — a place hard to escape from. Behind it was 
the wilderness of scrub, in which a fugitive would soon starve ; 
in front was the narrow neck, with a cordon of chained dogs 
across it, and a line of lanterns, and a fence of living guards, 
armed. "We saw the place as we swept by — that is, we had a 
glimpse of what we were told was the entrance to Port 
Arthur. The glimpse was worth something, as a remem- 
brancer, but that was all. i 
" The voyage thence up the Derwent Frith displays a 
grand succession of fairy visions, in its entire length elsewhere 
unequaled. In gliding over the deep blue sea studded with 
lovely islets luxuriant to the water's edge, one is at a loss 
which scene to choose for contemplation and to admire most. 
When the Huon and Bruni have been passed, there seems no 
possible chance of a rival ; but suddenly Mount Wellington, 
massive and noble like his brother Etna, literally heaves in sight, 
sternly guarded on either hand by Mounts Nelson and E-umney ; 
presently we arrive at Sullivan's Cove — Hobart I " 
It is an attractive town. It sits on low hills that slope to 
the harbor — a harbor that looks like a river, and is as smooth 
as one. Its still surface is pictured with dainty reflections of 
boats and grassy banks and luxuriant foliage. Back of the 
town rise highlands that are clothed in woodland loveliness, 
and over the way is that noble mountain, Wellington, a 
stately bulk, a most majestic pile. How beautiful is the whole 
region, for form, and grouping, and opulence, and freshness of 
foliage, and variety of color, and grace and shapeliness of the 
hills, the capes, the promontories ; and then, the splendor of 
the sunlight, the dim rich distances, the charm of the water- 
glimpses ! And it was in this paradise that the yellow-liveried 
convicts were landed, and the Corps-bandits quartered, and the 
wanton slaughter of the kangaroo-chasing black innocents con- 
summated on that autumn day in May, in the brutish old 
time. It was all out of keeping with the place, a sort of bring- 
ing of heaven and hell together. 
The remembrance of this paradise reminds me that it was 
at Hobart that we struck the head of the procession of Junior 
Englands. We were to encounter other sections of it in New 
Zealand, presently, and others later in Natal. Wherever the. 
exiled Englishman can find in his new home resemblances to his 
old one, he is touched to the marrow of his being ; the love that 
is in his heart inspires his imagination, and these allied forces 
transfigure those resemblances into authentic duplicates of the 
revered originals. It is beautiful, the feeling which works 
this enchantment, and it compels one's homage ; compels it, 
and also compels one's assent — compels it always — even 
when, as happens sometimes, one does not see the resemblances 
as clearly as does the exile who is pointing them out. 
The resemblances do exist, it is quite true ; and often they 
cunningly approximate the originals — but after all, in the 
matter of certain physical patent rights there is only one 
England. Now that I have sampled the globe, I am not in 
doubt. There is a beauty of Switzerland, and it is repeated 
in the glaciers and snowy ranges of many parts of the earth ; 
there is a beauty of the fiord, and it is repeated in New Zealand 
and Alaska ; there is a beauty of Hawaii, and it is repeated in 
ten thousand islands of the Southern seas ; there is a beauty of 
the prairie and the plain, and it is repeated here and there in 
the earth ; each of these is worshipful, each is perfect in its 
way, yet holds no monopoly of its beauty ; but that beauty 
which is England is alone — it has no duplicate. 
It is made up of very simple details — just grass, and trees, 
and shrubs, and roads, and hedges, and gardens, and houses, 
and vines, and churches, and castles, and here and there a ruin 
— and over it all a mellow dream-haze of history. But its 
beauty is incomparable, and all its own. 
Hobart has a peculiarity — it is the neatest town that the 
sun shines on ; and I incline to believe that it is also the 
cleanest. However that may be, its supremacy in neatness is 
not to be questioned. There cannot be another town in the 
world that has no shabby exteriors ; no rickety gates and 
fences, no neglected houses crumbling to ruin, no crazy and 
unsightly sheds, no weed-grown front-yards of the poor, no 
back-yards littered with tin cans and old boots and empty 
bottles, no rubbish in th& gutters, no clutter on the sidewalks, 
no outer-borders fraying out into dirty lanes and tin-patched 
huts. No, in Hobart all the aspects are tidy, and all a comfort 
to the eye ; the modestest cottage looks combed and brushed, 
and has its vines, its flowers, its neat fence, its neat gate, its 
comely cat asleep on the window ledge. 
We had a glimpse of the museum, by courtesy of the 
American gentleman who is curator of it. It has samples of 
half-a-dozen different kinds of marsupials* — one, the " Tas- 
manian devil ; " that is, I think he was one of them. And 
there was a fish with lungs. When the water dries up it can 
live in the mud. Most curious of all was a parrot that kills 
sheep. On one great sheep-run this bird killed a thousand 
sheep in a whole year. He doesn't want the whole sheep, but 
only the kidney-fat. This restricted taste makes him an ex- 
pensive bird to support. To get the fat he drives his beak in 
and rips it out ; the wound is mortal. This parrot furnishes a 
notable example of evolution brought about by changed con 
ditions. When the sheep culture was introduced, it presently 
brought famine to the parrot by exterminating a kind of grub 
which had always thitherto been the parrot's diet. The miseries 
of hunger made the bird willing to eat raw flesh, since it could 
get no other food, and it began to pick remnants of meat from 
sheep skins hung out on the fences to dry. It soon came to prefer 
sheep meat to any other food, and by and by it came to prefer 
the kidney-fat to any other detail of the sheep. The parrot's bill 
was not well shaped for digging out the fat, but Kature fixed 
that matter ; she altered the bill's shape, and now the parrot can 
dig out kidney-fat better than the Chief Justice of the Supreme 
Court, or anybody else, for that matter — even an Admiral. 
* A marsupial is a plantigrade vertebrate whose specialty is its pocket. In some 
countries it is extinct, in the others it is rare. The first American marsupials were 
Stephen Girard, Mr. Astor, and the opossum ; the principal marsupials of the 
Southern Hemisphere are Mr. Rhodes, and the kangaroo. I, myself, am the latest 
marsuipal. Also, I might boast that I have the largest pocket of them all. But 
there is nothing in that. 
And there was another curiosity — quite a stunning one, I  
thought : Arrow-heads and knives just like those which 
Primeval Man made out of flint, and thought he had done such 
a wonderful thing — yes, and has been humored and coddled 
in that superstition by tliis age of admiring scientists until 
there is probably no living with him in the other world by 
now. Yet here is his finest and nicest work exactly duplicated 
in our day; and by people who have never heard of him or 
his works : by aborigines who lived in the islands of these seas, 
within our time. And they not only duplicated those works of 
art but did it in the brittlest and most treacherous of substances 
— glass : made them out of old brandy bottles flung out of 
the British camps ; millions of tons of them. It is time for 
Primeval Man to make a little less noise, now. He has had 
his day. He is not what he used to be. 
"We had a drive through a bloomy and odorous fairy-land, 
to the Refuge for the Indigent — a spacious and comfortable 
home, with hospitals, etc., for both sexes. There was a crowd 
there, of the oldest people I have ever seen. It was like being 
suddenly set down in a new world — a weird world where 
Youth has never been, a world sacred to Age, and bowed 
forms, and wrinkles. Out of the 359 persons present, 223 
were ex-convicts, and could have told stirring tales, no doubt, 
if they had been minded to talk ; 42 of the 359 were past 80, 
and several were close upon 90 ; the average age at death 
there is Y6 years. As for rae, I have no use for that place ; 
it is too healthy. Seventy is old enough — after that, there is 
too much risk. Youth and gaiety might vanish, any day — and 
then, what is left ? Death in life ; death without its privileges, 
death without its benefits. There were 185 women in that 
Refuge, and 81 of them were ex-convicts. 
The steamer disappointed us. Instead of making a long 
visit at Hobart, as usual, she made a short one. So we got but 
a glimpse of Tasmania, and then moved on. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
Nature makes the locust with an appetite for crops ; man would have made him 
with an appetite for saud. — Padd'nkead WilsonH New Calendar. 
VE spent part of an afternoon and a night at sea, and 
reached Bluff, in Kew Zealand, early in the morning. 
Bluff is at the bottom of the middle island, and is 
away down south, nearly forty-seven degrees below the equa- 
tor. It lies as far south of the line as Quebec lies north of it, 
and the climates of the two should be alike ; but for some 
reason or other it has not been so arranged. Quebec is hot in 
the summer and cold in the winter, but Bluff's climate is less 
intense ; the cold weather is not very cold, the hot weather is 
not very hot; and the difference between the hottest month 
and the coldest is but 17 degrees Fahrenheit. 
In New Zealand the rabbit plague began at Bluff. The 
man who introduced the rabbit there was banqueted and 
lauded ; but they would hang him, now, if they could get him. 
In England the natural enemy of the rabbit is detested and 
persecuted ; in the Bluff region the natural enemy of the 
rabbit is honored, and his person is sacred. The rabbit's 
natural enemy in England is the poacher, in Bluff its natural 
enemy is the stoat, the weasel, the ferret, the cat, and the 
mongoose. In England any person below the Heir who is 
caught with a rabbit in his possession must satisfactorily ex- 
plain how it got there, or he will suffer fine and imprisonment, 
together with extinction of his peerage ; in Bluff, the cat 
found with a rabbit in its possession does not have to explain 
— everybody looks the other way ; the person caught noticing 
would suffer fine and imprisonment, with extinction of peer- 
age. This is a sure way to undermine the moral fabric of a 
cat. Thirty years from now there will not be a moral cat in 
New Zealand. Some think there is none there now. In Eng- 
land the poacher is watched, tracked, hunted — he dare not 
show his face ; in Bluff the cat, the weasel, the stoat, and the 
mongoose go up and down, whither they will, unmolested. 
By a law of the legislature, posted where all may read, it is 
decreed that any person found in possession of one of these 
creatures (dead) must satisfactorily explain the circumstances 
or pay a fine of not less than £5, nor more than £20. The 
revenue from this source is not large. Persons who want to 
pay a hundred dollars for a dead cat are getting rarer and 
rarer every day. This is bad, for the revenue was to go to the 
endowment of a University. All governments are more or 
less short-sighted : in England they fine the poacher, whereas 
he ouofht to be banished to New Zealand. New Zealand 
would pay his way, and give him wages. 
LAKE MANAPOUUI. 
It was from Bluff that we ought to have cut across to the 
west coast and visited the New Zealand Switzerland, a land of 
superb scenery, made up of snowy grandeurs, and mighty 
glaciers, and beautiful lakes; and over there, also, are the 
wonderful rivals of the Norwegian and Alaskan fiords ; and 
for neighbor, a waterfall of 1,900 feet ; but we were obliged 
to postpone the trip to some later and indefinite time. 
November 6. A lovely summer morning; brilliant blue 
sky. A few miles out from Invercargill, passed through vast 
level green expanses snowed over with sheep. Fine to see. 
The green, deep and very vivid sometimes ; at other times less 
so, but delicate and lovely. A passenger reminds me that I 
am in " the England of the Far South." 
Dunedin same date. The town justifies Michael Davitt's 
praises. The people are Scotch. 
They stopped here on their way 
from home to heaven — thinking 
they had arrived. The population 
is stated at 40,000, by Malcolm 
Koss, journalist ; stated by an M. P. 
at 60,000. A journalist cannot lie. 
To the residence of Dr. Hockin. 
He has a fine collection of books 
relating to New Zealand ; and his 
house is a museum of Maori art 
and antiquities. He has pictures 
and prints in color of many native 
chiefs of the past — some of them 
of note in history. There is noth- 
ing of the savage in the faces ; 
nothing could be finer than these 
men's features, nothing more intel- 
lectual than these faces, nothing 
more masculine, nothing nobler 
than their aspect. The aborigi- 
nals of Australia and Tasmania 
looked the savage, but these chiefs 
looked like Koman patricians. The tattooing in these portraits 
ought to suggest the savage, of course, but it does not. The 
designs are so flowing and graceful and beautiful that they are 
a most satisfactory decoration. It takes but fifteen minutes 
to get reconciled to the tattooing, and but fifteen more to 
Monument to a Maori robber who 
went about on stilts ; thus avoiding de- 
tection for a long lime. So great was 
the public admiration of his shrewdness 
that this monument was erected. It is 
supposed to be a portrait of the man 
and the stilts 
perceive that it is just the thing. After that, the undecorated 
European face is unpleasant and ignoble. 
Dr. Ilockin gave us a ghastly curiosity — a lignified cater- 
pillar with a plant growing out of the back of its neck — a 
plant with a slender stem 4 inches high. It happened not by 
accident, but by design — Nature's design. This caterpillar 
was in the act of loyally carrying out a law inflicted upon 
him by Nature — a law purposely inflicted upon him to get 
him into trouble — a law which was a trap ; in pursuance of 
this law he made the proper preparations for turning himself 
into a night-moth ; that is to say, he dug a little trench, a little 
grave, and then stretched himself out in it on his stomach and 
partially buried himself — then Nature was ready for him. 
She blew the spores of a peculiar fungus through the air — 
with a purpose. Some of them fell into a crease in the back 
of the caterpillar's neck, and began to sprout and grow — for 
there was soil there — he had not washed his neck. The 
roots forced themselves down into the worm's person, and 
rearward along through its body, sucking up the creature's 
juices for sap; the worm slowly died, and turned to wood. 
And here he was now, a wooden caterpillar, with every detail 
of his former physique delicately and exactly preserved and 
perpetuated, and with that stem standing up out of him for 
his monument — monument commemorative of his own loyalty 
and of Nature's unfair return for it. 
Nature is always acting like that. Mrs. X. said (of 
course) that the caterpillar was not conscious and didn't 
suffer. She should have known better. No caterpillar can 
deceive Nature. If this one couldn't suffer, Nature would 
have known it and would have hunted up another caterpillar. 
Not that she would have let this one go, merely because it 
was defective. No. She would have waited and let him turn 
into a night-moth ; and then fried him in the candle. 
Nature cakes a fish's eyes over with parasites, so that it 
shan't be able to avoid its enemies or find its food. She sends 
parasites into a star-fish's system, which clog up its prongs 
and swell them and make them so uncomfortable that the 
poor creature delivers itself from the prong to ease its misery ; 
and presently it has to part with another prong for the sake 
of comfort, and finally with a third. If it re-grows the 
prongs, the parasite returns and the same thing is repeated. 
And finally, when the ability to reproduce prongs is lost 
through age, that poor old star-fish can't get around any more, 
and so it dies of starvation. 
In Australia is prevalent a horrible disease due to an 
" unperfected tape-worm." Unperfected — that is what they 
call it, I do not know why, for it transacts business just as 
well as if it were finished and frescoed and gilded, and all that. 
November 9. To the museum and public picture gallery 
with the president of the Society of Artists. Some fine pictures 
there, lent by the S. of A. — several of them they bought, the 
others came to them by gift. Next, to the gallery of the 
S. of A. — annual exhibition — just opened. Fine. Think of 
a town like this having two such collections as this, and a 
Society of Artists. It is so all over Australasia. If it were a 
monarchy one might understand it. I mean an absolute 
monarchy, where it isn't necessary to vote money, but take it. 
Then art flourishes. But these colonies are republics — repub- 
lics with a wide suffrage ; ' voters of both sexes, this one of 
New Zealand. In republics, neither the government nor the 
rich private citizen is much given to propagating art. All 
over Australasia pictures by famous European artists are 
bought for the public galleries by the State and by societies of 
citizens. Living citizens — not dead ones. They rob them- 
selves to give, not their heirs. This S. of A. here owns its 
buildings — built it by subscription. 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
The spirit of wrath — not the words — is the sin; and the spirit of wrath is 
cursing. We begin to swear before we can talk. 
— PudiVnhead Wilson'' s New Calendar. 
NOVEMBER 11. On tJie road. This train— express— 
goes twenty and one-half miles an hour, schedule 
time ; but it is fast enough, the outlook upon sea and 
land is so interesting, and the cars so comfortable. They 
are not English, and not American ; they are the Swiss com- 
bination of the two. A narrow and railed porch along the 
side, where a person can walk up and down. A lavatory in 
each car. This is progress ; this is nineteenth-century spirit. 
In New Zealand, these fast expresses run twice a week. It is 
well to know this if you want to be a bird and fly through the 
country at a 20-mile gait ; otherwise you may start on one of 
the five wrong days, and then you will get a train that can't 
overtake its own shadow. 
By contrast, these pleasant cars call to mind the branch- 
road cars at Maryborough, Australia, and the passengers' talk 
about the branch-road and the hotel. 
Somewhere on the road to Maryborough I changed for a 
while to a smoking-carriage. There were two gentlemen there ; 
both riding backward, one at each end of the compartment. 
They were acquaintances of each other. I sat down facing the 
one that sat at the starboard window. He had a good face, 
and a friendly look, and I judged from his dress that he was a 
dissenting minister. He was along toward fifty. Of his own 
motion he struck a match, and shaded it with his hand for me 
to light my cigar. I take the rest from my diary : 
In order to start conversation I asked him something about 
Maryborough, He said, in a most pleasant — even musical — 
voice, but with quiet and cultured decision : 
" It's a charming town, with a hell of a hotel." 
I was astonished. It seemed so odd to hear a minister 
swear out loud. He went placidly on : 
"It's the worst hotel in Australia. Well, one may go 
further, and say in Australasia." 
"Bad beds?" 
" No — none at all. Just sand-bags." 
"The pillows, too?" 
" Yes, the pillows, too. Just sand. And not a good quality 
of sand. It packs too hard, and has never been screened. 
There is too much gravel in it. It is like sleeping on nuts." 
" Isn't there any good sand ? " 
" Plenty of it. There is as good bed-sand in this region as 
the world can furnish. Aerated sand — and loose; but they 
won't buy it. They want something that will pack solid, 
and petrify." 
" How are the rooms ?" 
"Eight feet square; and a sheet of iced oil-cloth to step 
on in the morning when you get out of the sand-quarry." 
" As to lights ? " 
" Coal-oil lamp." 
" A good one ? " 
" No. It's the kind that sheds a gloom." 
" I like a lamp that burns all night." 
" This one won't. Yoii must blow it out early." 
" That is bad. One might want it again in the night. 
Can't find it in the dark." 
" There's no trouble ; you can find it by the stench." 
"Wardrobe?" 
" Two nails on the door to hang seven suits of clothes on — 
if you've got them." 
"Bells?" 
" There aren't any." 
" What do you do when you want service ? " 
" Shout. But it won't fetch anybod3" 
" Suppose you want the chambermaid to empty the slop- 
jar?" 
"There isn't any slop-jar. The hotels don't keep them. 
That is, outside of Sydney and Melbourne." 
" Yes, I knew that, I was only talking. It's the oddest 
thing in Australia. Another thing : I've got to get up in the 
dark, in the morning, to take 
the 5 o'clock train. Kow 
if the boots — " 
" There isn't any." 
" Well, the porter." 
" There isn't any." 
" But who will call 
me?" 
"Nobody. You'll call 
yourself. And you'll light 
yourself, too. There'll not 
be a light burning 
in the halls or any- 
where. And if you 
don't carry a light, 
you'll break your 
neck." 
"But who will 
help me down with 
my baggage ? " 
" Nobody. However, I will tell you what to do. In Mary- 
borough there's an American who has lived there half a life- 
time ; a fine man, and prosperous and popular. He will be on 
the lookout for you ; you won't have any trouble. Sleep in 
peace ; he will rout you out, and you will make your train. 
Where is your manager ? " 
" I left him at Ballarat, studying the language. And 
besides, he had to go to Melbourne and get us ready for 'New 
Zealand. I've not tried to pilot myself before, and it doesn't 
look easy." 
" Easy ! You've selected the very most difficult piece of 
railroad in Australia for your experiment. There are twelve 
miles of this road which no man without good executive ability 
can ever hope — tell me, have you good executive ability ? — 
first-rate executive ability ? " 
"I — well, I think so, but — " 
"That settles it. The tone of — oh, you wouldn't ever 
make it in the world. However, that American will point 
you right, and you'll go. You've got tickets ? " 
" Yes — round trip ; all the way to Sydney." 
" Ah, there it is, you see ! You are going in the 5 o'clock 
by Castlemaine — twelve miles — instead of the 7.15 by Bal- 
larat — in order to save two hours of fooling along the road. 
Kow then,*don't interrupt — let me have the floor. You're 
going to save the government a deal of hauling, but that's 
nothing ; your ticket is by Ballarat, and it isn't good over that 
twelve miles, and so — " 
" But why should the government care which way I go ? " 
" Goodness knows ! Ask of the winds that far away with 
fragments strewed the sea, as the boy that stood on the burn- 
ing deck used to say. The government chooses to do its rail- 
way business in its own way, and it doesn't know as much 
about it as the French. In the beginning they tried idiots ; 
then they imported the French — which was going backwards, 
you see ; now it runs the roads itself — which is going back- 
wards again, you see. Why, do you know, in order to curry 
favor with the voters, the government puts down a road 
wherever anybody wants it — anybody that owns two sheep 
and a dog ; and by consequence we've got, in the colony of 
Victoria, 800 railway stations, and the business done at eighty 
of them doesn't foot up twenty shillings a week." 
" Five dollars ? Oh, come ! " 
" It's true. It's the absolute truth." 
" Why, there are three or four men on wages at every sta- 
tion." 
" I know it. And the station-business doesn't pay for the 
sheep-dip to sanctify their coffee with. It's just as I say. And 
accommodating ? Why, if you shake a rag the train will stop 
in the midst of the wilderness to pick you up. All that kind 
of politics costs, you see. And then, besides, any town that 
has a good many votes and wants a fine station, gets it. Don't 
you overlook that Maryborough station, if you take an inter- 
est in governmental curiosities. Why, you can put the whole 
population of Maryborough into it, and give them a sofa apiece, 
and have room for more. You haven't fifteen stations in 
America that are as big, and you probably haven't five that 
are half as fine. Why, it's per-fectly elegant. And the clock ! 
Everybody will show you the clock. There isn't a station in 
Europe that's got such a clock. It doesn't strike — and that's 
one mercy. It hasn't any bell ; and as you'll have cause to 
remember, if you keep your reason, all Australia is simply be- 
damned with bells. On every quarter-hour, night and day, 
they jingle a tiresome chime of half a dozen notes — all the 
clocks in town at once, all the clocks in Australasia at once, 
and all the very same notes ; first, downward scale : rai re, do, 
sol — then upward scale :, sol, si, re, do — down again : mi, re, 
do, sol — up again : sol, si, re, do — then the clock — say at 
midnight: 
clang — clang — 
clang — clang ! 
hello, what's 
Oh, I see — 
ed by the 
wouldn't 
could scare 
of course, 
and run 
at a loss, 
stations 
like Mary- 
at another 
the govern- 
has got to econ 
somewhere, 
it ? Very well — 
the rolling stock ! 
where they save the 
Why, that train from 
ough will consist of 
freight-cars and 
senger-kennels ; 
cheap, poor, 
shabby, slovenly ; 
no drinking water, 
no sanitary arrange- 
ments, every imaginable 
inconvenience ; and slow ? — 
oh, the gait of cold molasses ; 
no air-brake, no springs, and they'll 
jolt your head oif every time they start or 
dang — clang — clang — clang — 
clang — clang — clang — clang — 
— and by that time you're — 
all this excitement about ? 
a runaway — scar- 
train ; why, you 
think this train 
anything. Well, 
when they build 
eighty stations 
and a lot of palace- 
and clocks 
borough's 
loss, 
ment 
omize 
hasn't 
look at 
That's 
money. Marybor- eighteen two pas- stop. That's where they make their little economies, 
you see. They spend tons of money to house you palatially while you 
wait fifteen minutes for a train, then degrade you to six hours' 
convict-transportation to get the foolish outlay back. What 
a rational man really needs is discomfort while he's waiting, 
then his journey in a nice train would be a grateful change. 
But no, that would be common sense — and out of place in a 
government. And then, besides, they save in that other little 
detail, you know -— repudiate their own tickets, and collect a 
poor little illegitimate extra shilling out of you for that 
twelve miles, and — " 
" Well, in any case — " 
" Wait — there's more. Leave that American out of the 
account and see what would happen. There's nobody on hand 
to examine your ticket when you arrive. But the conductor 
will come and examine it when the train is ready to start. It 
is too late to buy your extra ticket now ; the train can't wait, 
and won't. You must climb out." 
" But can't I pay the conductor ? " 
" No, he is not authorized to receive the money, and he 
won't. You must climb out. There's no other way. I tell 
you, the railway management is about the only thoroughly 
European thing here — continen tally European I mean, not 
English. It's the continental business in perfection ; downwe. 
Oh, yes, even to the peanut-commerce of weighing baggage." 
The train slowed up at his place. As he stepped out he said : 
" Yes, you'll like Maryborough. Plenty of intelligence 
there. It's a charming place — with a hell of a hotel." 
Then he was gone. I turned to the other gentleman : 
" Is your friend in the ministry ? " 
" No — studying for it." 
CEIAPTER XXXIL 
The man with a new idea is a Crank until the idea succeeds. 
— Pudcrnhead Wilson'' s JVew Calendar. 
IT was Junior -England all the way to Christchurch — in 
fact, just a garden. And Christchurch is an English 
town, with an English-park annex, and a winding English 
brook just like the won — and named the won ; but from a 
man, not from Shakespeare's river. Its grassy banks are 
bordered by the stateliest and most impressive wee|)ing wil- 
lows to be found in the world, I suppose. They continue the 
line of a great ancestor ; they were grown from sprouts of the 
willow that sheltered Napoleon's grave in St. Helena. It is a 
settled old community, with all the serenities, the graces, the 
conveniences, and the comforts of the ideal home-life. If it 
had an established Church and social inequality it would be 
England over again with hardly a lack. 
In the museum we saw many curious and interesting 
things ; among others a fine native house of the olden time, 
with all the details true to the facts, and the showy colors 
right and in their proper places. All the details: the fine 
mats and rugs and things ; the elaborate and wonderful wood 
carvings — wonderful, surely, considering who did them — 
wonderful in design and particularly in execution, for they 
were done with admirable sharpness and exactness, and yet 
with no better tools than flint and jade and shell could furnish ; 
and the totem-posts were there, ancestor above ancestor, with 
tongues protruded and hands clasped comfortably over bellies 
containing other people's ancestors — grotesque and ugly devils, 
every one, but lovingly carved, and ably; and the stuffed 
natives were present, in their proper places, and looking as 
natural as life ; and the housekeeping utensils were there, too, 
and close at hand the carved and finely ornamented war canoe. 
And we saw little jade gods, to hang around the neck — 
not everybody's, but sacred to the necks of natives of rank. 
Also jade weapons, and many kinds of jade trinkets — all 
made out of that excessively hard stone without the help of 
any tool of iron. And some of these things 
had small round holes bored through them — 
nobody knows how it was done ; a mystery, 
a lost art. I think it was said that if you want 
such a hole bored in a piece of jade now, you 
must send it to London or Amsterdam where 
the lapidaries are. 
Also we saw a complete skeleton 
of the giant Moa. It stood ten feet 
high, and must have been a sight 
to look at when it was a living 
bird. It was a kicker, like the 
ostrich ; in fight it did not use its 
beak, but its foot. It must have 
been a convincing kind of kick. 
If a person had his back to the bird and did not see who it 
was that did it, he would think he had been kicked by a 
wind-mill. 
There must have been a sufficiency of moas in the old 
forgotten days when his breed walked the earth. His bones 
are found in vast masses, all crammed together in huge graves. 
They are not in caves, but in the ground. Nobody knows how 
they happened to get concentrated there. Mind, they are 
bones, not fossils. This means that the moa has not been 
extinct very long. Still, this is the only iN'ew Zealand creature 
which has no mention in that otherwise comprehensive litera- 
ture, the native legends. This is a significant detail, and is 
good circumstantial evidence that the moa has been extinct 
500 years, since the Maori has himself — by tradition — been 
in New Zealand since the end of the fifteenth century. He 
came from an unknown land — the first Maori did — then 
sailed back in his canoe and brought his tribe, and they re- 
moved the aboriginal peoples into the sea and into the ground 
and took the land. That is the tradition. That that first 
Maori could come, is understandable, for anybody can come to 
a place when he isn't trying to ; but how that discoverer found 
his way back home again without a compass is his secret, and 
he died with it in him. His language indicates that he came 
from Polynesia. He told where he came from, but he couldn't 
spell well, so one can't find the place on the map, because 
people who could spell better than he could, spelt the resem- 
blance all out of it when they made the map. However, it is 
better to have a map that is spelt right than one that has 
information in it. 
In New Zealand women have the right to vote for mem- 
bers of the legislature, but they cannot be members them- 
selves. The law extending the suffrage to them went into 
effect in 1893. The population of Christchurch (census of 
1891) was 31,454. The first election under the law was held 
in November of that year. Number of men who voted, 6,313; 
number of women who voted, 5,989. These figures ought to 
convince us that women are not as indifferent about politics as 
some people would have us believe. In New Zealand as a 
whole, the estimated adult female population was 139,915 ; of 
these 109,461 qualified and registered their names on the rolls 
— Y8.23 per cent, of the whole. Of these, 90,290 went to the 
polls and voted — 85.18 per cent. Do men ever turn out 
better than that — in America or elsewhere? Here is a remark 
to the other sex's credit, too — I take it from the oflBcial 
report : 
" A feature of the election was the orderliness and sobriety 
of the people. Women were in no way molested." 
At home, a standing argument against woman suffrage has 
always been that women could not go to the polls without being 
insulted. The arguments against woman suffrage have always 
taken the easy form of prophecy. The prophets have been 
prophesying ever since the woman's rights movement began in 
1848 — and in forty-seven years they have never scored a hit. 
Men ought to begin to feel a sort of respect for their 
mothers and wives and sisters by this time. The women 
deserve a change of attitude like that, for they have wrought 
well. In forty-seven years they have swept an imposingly 
large number of unfair laws from the statute books of America. 
In that brief time these serfs have set themselves free — 
essentially. Men could not have done so much for themselves 
in that time without bloodshed — at least they never have; 
and that is argument that they didn't know how. The women 
have accomplished a peaceful revolution, and a very beneficent 
one; and yet that has not convinced the average man that 
they are intelligent, and have courage and energy and perse- 
verance and fortitude. It takes much to convince the average 
man of anything; and perhaps nothing can ever make him 
realize that he is the e-verage woman's inferior — yet in several 
important details the evidences seems to show that that is 
what he is. Man has ruled the human race from the begin- 
ning — but he should remember that up to the middle of the 
present century it was a dull world, and ignorant and stupid ; 
but it is not such a dull world now, and is growing less and 
less dull all the time. This is woman's opportunity — she has 
had none before. I wonder where man will be in another 
forty-seven years ? 
In the New Zealand law occurs this : " The word person 
wherever it occurs throughout the Act includes woman.'''' 
That is promotion, you see. By that enlargement of the 
word, the matron with the garnered wisdom and experience of 
fifty years becomes at one jump the political equal of her 
callow kid of twenty-one. The white population of the colony 
is 626,000, the Maori population is 42,000. The whites elect 
seventy members of the House of Kepresentatives, the Maoris 
four. The Maori women vote for their four members. 
Wovemher 16. After four pleasant days in Christchurch, 
we are to leave at midnight to-night. Mr. Kinsey gave me an 
ornithorhyncus, and I am taming it. 
Sunday, 17th. Sailed last night in the Flora, from Lyt- 
telton. 
So we did. I remember it yet. The people who sailed in 
the Flora that night may forget some other things if they live 
a good while, but they will not live long enough to forget 
that. The Flora is about the equivalent of a cattle-scow; 
but when the Union Company find it inconvenient to keep a 
contract and lucrative to break it, they smuggle her into 
passenger service, and " keep the change." 
They give no notice of their projected depredation ; you 
innocently }3uy tickets for the advertised passenger boat, and 
when you get down to Lyttelton at midnight, you find that 
they have substituted the scow. They have plenty of good 
boats, but no competition — and that is the trouble. It is too 
late now to make other arrangements if you have engagements 
ahead. 
It is a powerful company, it has a monopoly, and every- 
body is afraid of it — including the government's representa- 
tive, who stands at the end of the stage-plank to tally the 
passengers and see that no boat receives a greater number 
than the law allows her to carry. This conveniently-blind 
representative saw the scow receive a number which was far 
in excess of its privilege, and winked a politic wink and said 
nothing. The passengers bore with meekness the cheat which 
had been put upon them, and made no complaint. 
It was like being at home in America, where abused 
passengers act in just the same way. A few days before, the 
Union Cpinpany had discharged a captain for getting a boat 
into danger, and had advertised this act as evidence of its 
vigilance in looking after the safety of the passengers — for 
thugging a captain costs the company nothing, but when 
opportunity offered to send this dangerously overcrowded tub 
to sea and save a little trouble and a tidy penny by it, it forgot 
to worry about the passenger's safety. 
The first officer told me that the Flora was privileged to 
carry 125 passengers. She must have had all of 230 on board. 
All the cabins were full, all the cattle-stalls in the main stable 
were full, the spaces at the heads of companionways were full, 
every inch of floor and table in the swill-room was packed 
with sleeping men and remained so until the place was 
required for breakfast, all the chairs and benches on the hurri- 
cane deck were occupied, and still there were people who had 
to walk about all night ! 
If the Flora had gone down that night, half of the people 
on board would have been wholly without means of escape. 
The owners of that boat were not technically guilty of 
conspiracy to commit murder, but they were morally guilty 
of it. 
I had a cattle-stall in the main stable — a cavern fitted up 
with a long double file of two-storied bunks, the files separated 
by a calico partition — twenty men and boys on one side of it, 
twenty women and girls on the other. The place was as dark 
as the soul of the ITnio]i Company, and smelt like a kennel. 
When the vessel got out into the heavy seas and began to 
pitch and wallow, the cavern prisoners became immediately 
sea-sick, and then the peculiar results that ensued laid all my 
previous experiences of the kind well away in the shade. 
And the wails, the groans, the cries, 
the shrieks, the strange ejacula- 
tions — it was wonderful. 
The women and children 
and some of the men 
and boys spent the 
night in that place, for 
they were too ill to 
leave it; but the rest 
of us got up, by and 
by, and finished the 
night on the hurricane- 
deck. 
That boat was the 
foulest I was ever in ; 
and the smell of the 
breakfast saloon when 
we threaded our way 
among the layers of 
steaming passengers 
stretched tipon its floor and its tables was incomparable for 
eificiency. 
A good many of us got ashore at the first way-port to seek 
another ship. After a wait of three hours we got good rooms 
in the Mahinapua, a wee little bridal-parlor of a boat — only 
205 tons burthen ; clean and comfortable ; good service ; good 
beds; good table, and no crowding. The seas danced her 
about like a duck, but she was safe and capable. 
Next morning early she went through the French Pass — a 
narrow gateway of rock, between bold headlands — so narrow, 
in fact, that it seemed no wider than a street. The current 
tore through there like a mill-race, and the boat darted 
through like a telegram. The passage was made in half a 
minute ; then we were in a wide place where noble vast eddies 
swept grandly round and round in shoal water, and I won- 
dered what they would do with the little boat. They did as 
they pleased with her. They picked her up and flung her 
around like nothing and landed her gently on the solid, smooth 
bottom of sand— so gently, indeed, that we barely felt her 
touch it, barely felt her quiver when she came to a standstill. 
The water was as clear as glass, the sand on the bottom was 
vividly distinct, and the fishes seemed to be swimming about 
in nothing. Fishing lines were brought out, but before we 
could bait the hooks the boat was off and away again. 
CHAPTEK XXXIII. 
Let us be grateful to Adam our benefactor. He cut us out of the " blessing" 
of idleness and won for us the " curse " of labor. 
— PudcVnhead Wilson''s New Calendar. 
