CHAPTER XX

MISS NAN UNDERHILL


Just a few days later, Mrs. Odell came down for some advice and help,
for Janey was to be married. Her betrothed was a well-to-do young farmer
up in Sullivan County. He was coming down in August to go to the World's
Fair; and he wanted to be married and make a general holiday of it.

"I am not much judge of such matters; but Stephen's wife will go
shopping with you. I don't know what we should do without her," said
Mrs. Underhill.

That very morning two silver-embossed envelopes came for Miss Nan
Underhill. One schoolmate was to be married in church at noon, and go to
Niagara on a wedding journey. The other was an evening ceremony with a
reception afterward. Mr. James Underhill had an invitation to this also.

Was all the world getting married, or being engaged! Standing on the
threshold, Hanny shrank back in dismay. It was looking out of a tranquil
cloister into a great, unknown world; and it gave her a mysterious
shiver. She didn't feel safe and warm until she had dropped on her
father's knee, and had his strong, fond arms about her.

Dolly's party was a great success. The young people were invited to meet
Miss Nan Underhill. And Miss Nan wore her graduation dress and blue
ribbons. Blue gave her a sort of ethereal look; pink added a kind of
blossomy sweetness.

Dolly knew so many young folks. True, there were some older ones. Ben
and Delia came up for an hour. Dolly said they were old-fashioned
married people already. Hanny thought there didn't seem much difference,
only Ben had a new strange sort of sweetness. She was very fond of
Delia; and it was a delight to feel free to go down to Beach Street.

Peter and Paulus Beekman came; and they were nice, fine, rather stout
young men. Peter was a lawyer; he and Jim were quite friends. Paulus was
in shipping business.

"Oh," said Peter to Nan, "you look just as you did when you were a
little girl and used to come to grandfather's. Do you remember that
beautiful Angora cat? That was grandfather's sign. He always took to
people Katschina liked. And your hair hasn't grown any darker. I like
light hair. Aunt Dolly has such beautiful hair! And I'm glad you have
not grown up into a great, tall May-pole. I just adore little women.
When I marry, I am going to choose a 'bonnie wee thing,' like the wife
in the song."

Hanny flushed rosy red. Oh, why would people talk about being married,
and all that? And if Peter wouldn't look at her in just that way! It
gave her a touch of embarrassment.

But oh, they had a splendid time! Modern young people would have been
bored, and voted it "no spread at all." They played Proverbs, and What
is my thought like? and everybody tried to bring out their very best,
and be as bright and witty and joyous as possible. They had plain cake
and fancy cake, and a new kind of dainty crisp crackers; candies, nuts,
raisins, and mottoes, which were the greatest fun of all. Afterward,
some dancing with the Cheat quadrille, and it was so amusing to "cut
out," or run away and leave your partner with his open arms, and a blank
look of surprise on his face.

Doctor Joe came to take the little girl home; for he was quite sure Jim
would want to take some one else's sister.

"Aunt Dolly," said Peter, when he was going away without any girl at
all, though he had hoped to walk home with Hanny, "isn't Nan Underhill
just the sweetest little thing in the world? I don't wonder grandfather
liked her so. With that soft, indescribable hair, and her
eyes,--twilight eyes, some one put in a poem,--and that cunning dimple
when she smiles, and so dainty altogether. What made you say she was not
pretty?"

"Why, I said, she was not as handsome as Mrs. Hoffman."

"She suits me ten times better. She is like this,

    "'A creature not too bright or good
    For human nature's daily food.'"

Dolly repeated the talk and the verses to Stephen. "And Peter is such a
solid, steady-going fellow. He was really smitten."

"The idea! And with that child!"

Dolly laughed gaily. "I suppose when our girls get to be eighteen, you
will still think them children. Why, I wasn't quite fifty when you fell
in love with me!"

Fifty! How ridiculous it was to think of Dolly ever being fifty. Ah, it
is love alone that holds the secret of eternal youth!

"Well, I hope there won't any one be foolish over Hanny, in a long
while," said Stephen, decisively.

"Foolish!" repeated Dolly, in a tone of resentment. But then they both
laughed.

The Odell girls came down to make a two days' visit. They went up to the
Deans' to tea; and the two engaged girls strayed off by themselves, with
their arms about each other, and had confidences in which the masculine
pronoun played an important part. And poor Polly bewailed the prospect
of being left alone. If she had a brother like Jim, she wouldn't mind.

Jim's girls were a kind of standing amusement to the family. This was a
case where there was safety in numbers, Mrs. Underhill felt assured. If
she had known of the episode of Lily Ludlow, her confidence would have
been a little shaken. Jim was a general lover of the sex, and a
good-looking, entertaining young fellow is apt to be spoiled.

Just now he had a penchant for Daisy, who teased him, and was as
uncertain as an April shower. She and Hanny were inseparables. Jim took
them round to Dolly's, or down to Ben's, or to Mrs. Hoffman, who had a
new grand piano, and had refurnished her parlor, quite changing the
simplicity of her first wedded life. Through the winter, she had given
fortnightly receptions, that had an air and grace of the highest
refinement. You always met some of the best and the most entertaining
people. It was not a crush and a jam; but men and women really talked at
that period, and brought out their best. Knowledge was not at a
discount.

Young ladies came to call on Miss Underhill; and in the evenings, they
brought their brothers or admirers. When she knew of it beforehand, she
always had Daisy to help. Sometimes the whole party would go out for a
little walk, and have some cream or water ices. The city was still so
airy and open, you did not have to fly out of it at the first pleasant
day.

This summer, nearly everybody was staying at home, and waiting for the
big fair to open. Rooms at hotels and private houses were engaged; and
the plainer country people came in to visit. There would be crowds, of
course.

The Underhills had invited some of the elder relatives, since they had
plenty of room.

And on July 4th, this great event occurred. The President, Mr. Franklin
Pierce at that time, was the grand master of the occasion. Oh, what a
Fourth of July it was! The grounds were crowded. The military were out
in force; and the fireworks would have done credit to the empire of
China. Never had the city seen such a gala time; the Victory of Peace it
was called.

The men had it largely to themselves this day. It was more the
ceremonies, than the articles exhibited, that attracted attention. That
came later on.

There was a great influx of visitors in the city. The streets were
thronged; the stages were crowded. One wonders what they did without
electric cars. But numbers of people still kept carriages, and temporary
lodging-houses were erected in the vicinity of the Palace. It certainly
was a great thing for that day. And the interior, with its handsome
dome, its galleries, its arched naves, and broad aisles, had a striking
and splendid effect.

And, oh, the riches of the world that had contributed some of its
choicest treasures! There were many people who never expected to go to
Europe, and who were glad beyond measure to have it come to them. Here
was the largest collection of paintings and sculpture that had ever been
gathered in New York. Then, for the first time, we saw Powers' matchless
Greek slave, and Kiss' Amazon, and many another famous marble. There was
the row of the Apostles by the sculptor Thorwaldsen, about which there
was always a concourse of people; and some of the devout could almost
see them in the flesh.

We have had a Centennial since, and a famous White City, and almost any
day, in New York, you can see some famous pictures and statuary. Then
people run over to Europe, and study up the galleries, and write books
of exquisite descriptions; but it was not so at that time. There is the
grand Museum of Art near to where the old Palace stood; but all was new
then. We had not been surfeited with beauty; we had not had a flood of
art critics, praising or denouncing, and schools of this or that fad. It
is good for cities, as well as nations, that they should once be young,
and revel in the enchanting sense of freshness and delight.

Presently, it became a sort of regular thing to go,--a kind of
summer-day excursion. There were delightful walks and drives up above.
Bloomingdale was still a garden of sweetness. Riverside was unknown,
only as the beautiful bank of the Hudson. You went and carried your
lunch, or you found some simple cottage, where a country-woman dispensed
truly home-made bread, and delicious ham, and a glass of milk,
buttermilk on some days.

The remembrance of it to Hanny Underhill, through all her after years,
was as of a golden summer. The little knot of young people kept
together. When Josie Dean recovered somewhat, from the first transports
of her engagement, she proved very companionable. Charles, in his long
vacation, was quite at their service. Jim couldn't always be at liberty;
but he did get off pretty often. Sometimes Joe, sometimes Father
Underhill, chaperoned the party; but they were allowed to go by
themselves as well. Girl friends joined them; Peter Beekman, and even
Paulus, thought it a great thing to be counted in.

Oh, the wonderful articles! It was a liberal education. Sèvres china,
Worcestershire with its wonderful tint, Wedgwood, Doulton, Cloisonnée,
some rare Italian; and the tragic stories of Palissy, of Josiah
Wedgwood, and Charles III. of Naples taking his secret to Spain; some
queer Chinese ware, and Delft and Dresden, until it seemed as if half
the genius of the world must have been expended in the exquisite
productions.

And then the laces, the gossamer fabrics, the silks and velvets, the
jewels, the elegant things from barbaric Russia, the wonders of the
Orient, the plainer exhibit of our own land rich in mechanical wonders,
the natural products, the sewing-machine that now could do the finest of
work, the miniature looms weaving, the queer South American and Mexican
fabrications, the gold from California,--well, it seemed as if one never
could see it all.

Hanny wondered why Peter Beekman should want to stay close by her when
Daisy was so bright and entertaining, and when there were other girls.
When he looked at her so earnestly her heart gave a great throb, her
cheeks burned, and she wanted to run away.

He wished she wasn't so shy and so ready to shelter herself under
Charlie's wing, or her father's, or Joe's. And when she felt really safe
she was so merry and enchanting!

It was a day in August, rather warm, to be sure; but Polly Odell had
come down just on purpose to go, "for now that Janey was married and
gone the house was too horrid lonesome!" They stopped for Josie. Doctor
Joe brought Daisy up in the afternoon, and they were all in the
picture-gallery, where they were ever finding something new. Perhaps
Polly had made big eyes at Peter; perhaps Peter liked her because she
talked so much about Hanny. Anyhow, they had rambled off way at one end.
Daisy was resting, and telling the doctor about some pictures in the
Berlin gallery. Hanny moved up and down slowly, not getting very far
away. She was fond of interiors, and the homely Dutch or French women
cooking supper, or tending a baby, or spinning. And there were two
kittens she had never seen before, scampering about an old kitchen where
a man in his shirt-sleeves had fallen asleep over his paper. It seemed
to her she could see them move.

A man of six or seven and twenty, young for his years, yet with a
certain stamp of the world and experience, went slowly along, glancing
at the visitors in a casual manner. Of course he would know Miss Jasper
and Dr. Underhill. It was like looking for a needle in a hay-stack; but
Mrs. Jasper had suggested the picture-gallery; and suddenly he saw a
small figure and fair face under a big leghorn hat full of wild roses
and green leaves. She was smiling at the playful kittens. Oh, it surely
was Miss Nan Underhill!

He came nearer; and she looked startled, as if she might fly. What a
delicious colour drenched her face!

"Oh, you surely haven't forgotten me!" he cried. "I should remember you
thousands of years, and I could pick you out of a world full of women."

"I--" Then she gave her soft little laugh, and the colour went
fluttering all over her face in a startled, happy manner. "But I
thought--"

"Did you think me a fixture in German wilds? Well, I am not. It's a
long, long story; but I have come over now for good, to be a true
American citizen all the rest of my days. The steamer arrived last
night; but I couldn't get off until nearly noon. Then I went to a hotel
and had some dinner, and came up to see Mrs. Jasper. She sent me here.
Where are the others?"

"Daisy is--" she glanced about--"oh, down there with my brother,--and
Miss Odell"--how queer that sounded!

"Let us stop here and rest until I get my breath and summon enough
fortitude to encounter them. You are dreadfully surprised, I see by your
face, I don't wonder. I must seem to you dropped from the clouds."

She wasn't a bit afraid, and sat down beside him. And she wondered if he
had married the German cousin and brought her over; but it was strange
not to mention her. It must be, however, if he was going to live in
America.

"Oh, do you remember that night and the Spanish dance? I have shut my
eyes and danced it ever so many times in memory. And you sent me
away,"--with a soft, untranslatable laugh.

"I--" She looked amazed. She seemed caught and held captive in the swirl
of some strange power. The colour fluttered up and down her sweet face,
and her eyelids drooped, their long, soft lashes making shadows.

"Yes, you said I ought to go; and I shall always be glad I went,"--in a
confident tone.

"Your cousin?" she said inquiringly, with no consciousness that a word
would swerve either way.

"Yes. You know I told you my father's wishes. That sort of thing doesn't
seem queer to continental people. But it was not so much his as the
aunt's,--the relation is farther back than that; but it serves the same
purpose. She had known about my father, and was desirous of being
friends. So after I was home about a week, and had confessed to my
father that the prospect of the marriage was not agreeable to me, he
still begged me to go."

Hanny looked almost as if she was disappointed. He smiled and resumed:--

"It is a lonely spot on the Rhine, not far from Ebberfeld. We will look
it up some day. I don't know how people can spend their lives in such
dreary places. I do not wonder my grandmother ran away with her brave
lover. The castle is fast going to ruins. There was a brother who wasted
a great deal of the patrimony before he died. The Baroness is the last
of her race. There is a poor little village at the foot of the mountain,
and some peasants who work the land; and then the cousin, who is
expected to rehabilitate the race by marrying a rich man."

"Yes." There was such a pretty, eager interest and pity in her eyes that
he smiled.

"She is six and twenty; tall, fair, with a sorrowful kind of face, that
has never been actually happy or pretty. Who could be happy in that
musty old rookery! The father, I believe, did very little for their
pleasure, but spent most of his time in town, wasting their little
substance."

"Oh, poor girl!" cried Hanny, thinking of her own father, so loving and
generous.

"She seemed to me almost as old as her mother. And then she told me her
troubles, poor thing, and I found her in heart and mind a sort of
inexperienced child. She has had a lover for two years; an enterprising
young man, who is superintendent of an iron mine some fifty miles
distant. It is the old story over again. I wish he had my grandfather's
courage and would run away with her. He has no title nor aristocratic
blood, and the mother will not consent. But I had made up my mind before
I went there, and even if I had been fancy free, I couldn't resign
myself to live in that old ruin."

"Oh, what will she do?"

"I advised her to run away." Herman Andersen laughed softly. "But I
think I persuaded them both to come to the city and visit my father.
They will find business isn't so shocking. They have lived in loneliness
until they know very little of the real world. The old castle is not
worth saving. Then I went home, and after a good deal of talking have
arranged my life in a way that is satisfactory to my father, and I hope
will be eminently so to myself. Some day I will tell you about that. Now
where shall we find the others?" and he rose.

"Daisy is down here." Hanny rose also; but she had a queer sort of
feeling, as if the world was turning round.

It seemed to Doctor Joe that he so rarely had a good talk with Daisy
now, that he would make the most of this opportunity. Jim was always
hovering about her. It was natural she should like the younger people.
He was like a very much older brother. She was looking pale and tired.
She could not stand continual dissipation. And while she often had a
brilliant color and Hanny very little, the latter possessed by far the
most endurance.

She liked to be alone with Doctor Joe. There was something restful and
inspiriting, as if she absorbed his generous, superabundant strength.

So they almost forgot about Hanny, or thought her with the others. And
now she came walking slowly down to them with a strange young man.

"Why, who can it be?" in a tone of surprised inquiry.

Daisy Jasper studied a moment. "Why, it looks like--no, it cannot
be--yes, it is Mr. Andersen."

"I thought he was in Germany."

Daisy looked puzzled. Then she sprang up with a quick colour and a smile
of pleasure, stretching out both hands.

"Oh, Miss Jasper!" and Mr. Andersen took her hands in a fervent clasp.
"Do you know this is going to be a red-letter day in my life,--one of
the happiest of days? Your mother sent me up here on a venture. First, I
found Miss Underhill, and now you. And one might go all over the world
and miss one's best friends. Ah, Dr. Underhill!"

A curious shock went over Dr. Underhill. He had to compel himself to
take the outstretched hand. For what had this young man "crossed the
seas?" He was not going to marry the cousin.

"But when did you come?" inquired Daisy. It was odd, but he took the
seat the other side of her, and Hanny was by Joe.

Then Mr. Andersen told his voyage all over again, and that he had come
for good. He was to take his father's money share in the house here, and
his father's was to be transferred to Paris, where one of the elderly
partners was in failing health and wished to retire.

"I am just delighted," exclaimed Daisy, enthusiastically. "If you would
only come and board at our house! There are some people going away.
Wouldn't it be splendid, Hanny?"

Hanny assented with a smile.

"I will see if I can find the others," said the doctor, rising and
looking at his watch. "Father was to drive up with the Surrey at
half-past five. Don't go away from here."

He walked slowly, looking a few moments in every room. Yes--there was
Charles. He caught his eye and beckoned.

The estrays soon rejoined the others. Then they went out to the
southern entrance, and so along to the gateway.

Yes, there was Mr. Underhill. He would take the four girls, and one
more, as he had a team. This was decided to be Mr. Andersen, as he was
to go to the Jaspers' to tea. The others would ride down in the stage.
The doctor said he must make a few calls. Mr. Beekman expressed his
intention of coming up in the evening, as Miss Odell was going to stay;
and Miss Odell's eyes shone with delight.

Daisy having a lover! Dr. Underhill had not felt alarmed about Jim's
attentions, he had so many fancies. But this young man--

Would it be best or wise for Daisy to marry? She appeared quite well,
but she was not strong, and there was a remnant of the old spinal
trouble that came out now and then in excruciating nervous headaches.
Somehow she had seemed his especial property since she had cried in his
arms with all the pain and suffering, and he had encouraged her to bear
the little more. He had meant always to stand her friend. It wasn't
likely he would marry, for he had seen no one yet that he wanted. But if
this child went out of his life! For, alas! the child had grown to
womanhood.




CHAPTER XXI

THE OLD, OLD STORY, EVER NEW


When Mr. Underhill took Polly home the next day, it was with the
stipulation that she should come back and spend a week. Polly was wild
with delight, and packed up her best things. There were some other
visitors,--cousins of the elderly sort,--so the young people had their
own good times. Daisy and Mr. Andersen were in, and Charlie and they had
the happy enjoyment of youth.

Peter Beekman seemed devoted to them. Jim wouldn't be crowded out where
Daisy was concerned, but he wanted to be first with her. Mr. Andersen
gave way generously, and went over to Hanny, who somehow clung to Polly.

There was a good deal of business to be done for Mr. Herman Andersen.
His father's share in the New York firm was to be transferred to him, as
at the age of twenty-five he had come into possession of his mother's
fortune, that had been accumulating. His father was to take charge of
the Paris house. He spent some hours every morning with Mr. Jasper,
acquiring a knowledge of his new duties; but the afternoons were for
pleasure, until the autumnal business stirred up.

"I do wish young Beekman wouldn't come over here so much," Mrs.
Underhill said in a fretted tone, "or that he would take a real fancy to
Polly."

"They are just having a young people's good time," returned Joe.
"Polly's a nice girl. He might do worse."

"But I am afraid it is not Polly. He watches Hanny like a cat watching a
mouse."

"Nonsense!" declared Joe.

"But he does. And I don't like it."

"Oh, mother dear, you're a hen with one chick. If there is a rustle in
the leaves you think a hawk is going to pounce down."

"Hanny's too young to have lovers." She tried to keep her face in severe
lines.

"Hanny isn't thinking about lovers. And Peter is a fine, solid fellow,
who is going to make his mark, and who may be a sort of ballast to Jim.
I like him."

"Oh, he is well enough. But if there was any fuss it might annoy Dolly.
And we have always been so cordial; Margaret was married too young."

"And you were married too young. Now, if you had waited and done without
Steve and me, and begun with John--"

There was a twinkle in Doctor Joe's eye.

"I should have begun with the most sensible son," returned his mother;
but she could not keep her voice sharp.

"Well, I will look after Hanny and the young man. I think myself that we
don't need any more lovers right away."

She knew she could depend on him.

Then they had some anxiety at Ben's, and Delia's mother was away. Aunt
Boudinot had her third stroke, and lay insensible for several days, then
slipped out of life. Mrs. Underhill was quite surprised with Delia's
good sense, as she called it, and really she wasn't such a bad
housekeeper for a girl with no training.

There was the funeral, with some of New York's oldest families.
Afterward the will was read. Aunt Patty had made a new one on the death
of her sister.

There was a small legacy to the niece who had married; a remembrance to
several relatives and friends. The use of the house was to be Mrs.
Whitney's while she lived; at her death to be sold and divided between
her niece, Delia Whitney, and her grand-niece, Eleanora Whitney. And to
Delia Whitney, if she took faithful care of her until her death, the sum
of five thousand dollars in bank-stock.

She had taken faithful care of her, and would have done it out of the
kindness of her heart without any reward.

"I thought it might be a thousand dollars," she said to Ben, "and I made
up my mind if it should be that, we would take it and go abroad. I had
some savings beside. When Bayard Taylor told us about his tour I felt
sure we could do something like it. We would keep out of the expensive
tourists' ways, and live cheaply, keeping house when we could. Oh, Ben,
won't it be splendid!"

He thought it splendid to have her so generous, but he had some savings
as well.

Five thousand dollars was considered quite a legacy in those days; and
the bank-stock was worth a good deal more than its face.

Every one said they would be crazy to waste their money in such a
frivolous manner.

"I don't mind if I shouldn't ever be rich," declared Ben. "I want a
piece of the big world, with its knowledges and wonders. I shouldn't
care to live there always, but it broadens one to see what other nations
have done; what has made their greatness and what has contributed to
their downfall. And the arts and sciences, the mysteries of the East and
of Egypt. We are young yet as a country, and we have a right to gather
up the riches of experience. I only hope we shall profit by it."

So they planned and planned. Delia looked over the old things, and sent
Dolly and Hanny some antiquities of a century or more. Then she packed
and boxed hers, for she knew her mother might deal them out to
indifferent people. She thought it would be a good plan to hire out the
house to some one who would board her mother and Theodore; and presently
one of the married sisters, Mrs. Ferris, decided she would come. So then
they could plan to go away; and Delia might write her novel while she
was abroad.

Meanwhile the summer was slipping away like a dream. The great fair
still attracted a large concourse. But September came in, and schools
opened. Jim went back to regular study; Charles to the seminary. Hanny
had some more schoolmates married. There was another baby at Margaret's;
and it was so delightful to go down to Delia's and hear all the plans!
Now that Hanny had learned so much at the Crystal Palace, she had quite
a longing for churches and museums and art galleries. Herman Andersen
had visited so many of them!

Sometimes Daisy Jasper went down with her. Mr. Andersen came for them in
the evening. Delia he thought wonderfully bright and entertaining. Ben
liked him amazingly.

"But if I had all that money," said Ben, "I wouldn't confine myself to
such puttering stuff as silks and laces and India shawls; I should want
to do something high up and fine, like a magazine or a paper, that had
influence and scope. Some day I mean to own a share in a paper, where
you have a chance to touch up public opinion."

Herman Andersen seemed very happy and content. Mr. Jasper said he was
going to make a fine, reliable business man. He really felt he wouldn't
object to him for a son.

Grandmother Van Kortlandt was growing more feeble, and now and then had
a bad spell. Doctor Joe made light of it, and told her red lavender and
aromatic hartshorn were good for old ladies. She seemed to want her
daughter near her. The young man who had alarmed Mrs. Underhill did not
come so frequently, so she began to feel quite safe.

Oh, what a happy, happy summer it had been! The little girl was used to
her long frocks, and studied ways of doing her hair, and practised
Mendelssohn's "Songs without Words" because some one had said they were
the most beautiful things he had ever heard. She and Daisy and Mr.
Andersen talked German, and had no end of fun.

One afternoon Mr. Andersen came in.

"Let us go up to the Crystal Palace," he said. "It is the most glorious
afternoon imaginable. There is a sort of hazy red gold in the air, that
exhilarates one. You feel as if you could soar to heaven's gate."

"We haven't been up in almost a fortnight," said Hanny, laughing.

"The more need of our going now. I enjoy these superb days to the full."

Hanny went to get her hat. Grandmother generally took her nap early in
the afternoon. Mother was not in her own room, she saw, as she looked
in, so she ran on down. She was not in the kitchen either.

"Joe," she cried--there was no one in the office, and he sat with his
legs stretched out, and a book on the table beside him, looking very
comfortable,--"Joe, where is mother?"

"Up with grandmother, dear. Don't disturb her. What did you want?"

"Oh, nothing--only to say--we are going up to the fair."

"Very well; run along. You look as sweet as a pink."

A bright color flashed over her face, and settled in her dimple, making
it look like a rose as she smiled.

She was putting on her blossom-coloured lace mitts as she entered the
room. Some one else thought she looked as sweet as a pink when he rose,
and led the way.

She turned down the street.

"Oh, Daisy is not going," he said. "She had a headache all the morning.
You don't mind?"

"Oh, no. Poor dear Daisy! And I didn't go in!" Her voice was touched
with the sweetest regret and compassion.

Doctor Joe went upstairs presently, to grandmother.

"Her breathing is better," he said. "I have tried a new remedy. When she
has had some sleep she will be all right. This isn't quite a normal
state yet. Call me if there is any special change."

Then he went down to the office again. People came more in the morning
or the evening, and he had attended to his urgent calls. He was glad not
to go out just then. But he thought of the young people on their way to
the palace of delight. Had he ever been young and joyous, as the youth
of to-day? He had studied and worked, taught some, used up all his time,
and had none for the passing vagaries. What made him feel old, and as if
some of the rarest delights would pass him by?

There was a light tap at the office-door, though it stood ajar. He rose
and opened it wider.

"Why, Daisy Jasper!" he cried in amazement. "Or is it your wraith? I
thought you had gone to the fair with Hanny."

She had been very pale; now she flushed a little. There was a
tremulousness about her, and shadows under her eyes.

"I had a headache all the morning; most of the night as well. It has
gone off somewhat, but I didn't feel well enough for that."

"No, of course not." He led her to the pretty library, that was always
having a picture or a set of books added. You couldn't put in any more
easy-chairs. He placed her in one. As he touched her hand, he felt the
feverish tremble.

"My dear child, what is it?"

Her eyes drooped, and tears beaded the lashes.

"You shouldn't have come out. Why did you not send for me?"

"I--I wanted to come. I knew Hanny would be gone. I wanted to see you."
She was strangely embarrassed.

He was standing by the side of the chair and took her hand again. How
limp and lifeless it seemed!

"I wanted to see you--to ask you, to tell you--oh, how shall I say
it!--if you could help me a little. You are so wise, and can think of so
many ways--and I am so afraid he loves me--it would not be right--"

Yes, that was it. This bright, charming, well-bred, fortunate young
fellow loved her. He could keep her like a little queen. And she had
some conscientious scruple about her health, and her trifling lameness,
and all. A word from him would keep her where she was. He had carried
her in his arms, his little ewe lamb. No man could ever give her the
exquisite care that he would be able to bestow. Oh, could he let any one
take her out of his life!

Yet some one younger and richer loved her. Yes, he must stand aside.

"My child,"--he would be grave and fatherly,--"I think you are making
yourself needless trouble. Why should you refuse a good man's love? You
have your beauty, and a gift that is really a genius, and though you may
not be as strong as some women, that is no reason why you should deny
yourself the choicest blessing of a woman's life."

"But"--she gave a little sob--"I thought you might blame me for being
heedless. We have all been such friends. And I don't want anything to
mar the perfect pleasantness. I know it is not right because--how can I
make you understand! It might wound you if I said it--I think it can
never be that kind of love--"

Did he hear aright, or was it some subtle temptation?

"You, of all other women, should be careful not to make a mistake. It
would mean more to you afterward--if matters went a little wrong."

"And he is so gay, so full of life and fun, and always wanting one to
keep up to the highest pitch. It would not be the right thing for him."

"But he is very gentle as well."

"Dr. Underhill, tell me that it isn't the right step for me to take,
ever," Daisy said decisively.

"I cannot tell you any such thing. I will not bar you out of any
happiness."

Perhaps he really approved of it. They were all in a way proud of the
younger brother. And Jim thought there was no such splendid man in the
world as the doctor. Oh, if she only knew! She was heroic enough to
please them all for the sake of the past and present friendship. But she
had a doubt of Mrs. Underhill's approval. She might give in as she had
to Delia; and now she had really begun to find virtues in Ben's wife.
But with Jim's brilliant nature always on the alert for amusement, she,
Daisy, would be worn out trying to keep up to his standard.

She rose slowly. "I ought not have come," she began in a despondent
tone. "I thought I could talk it all over with you; but I must decide,
and bear the pain. You may all feel hurt, even if you acknowledge the
wisdom of my decision. It would be a delight to come and live with you
all; I who have had no brothers or sisters. But I think Jim will soon
get over it, especially if you point out the unwisdom of it all. Maybe
you will take me back into favour then, when the soreness is spent."

"Jim," he repeated, in a vague, absent sort of way. "Jim! Who are you
talking about, Daisy?"

Her face was scarlet, and her eyes full of tears.

"Your brother James. It is a shame, I know, to betray one man's inmost
secrets to another. But I am quite sure that I ought not, that I cannot,
marry him. Oh, will you all forgive me, and help him to forget all but
the friendship?"

She took a step toward the door. The scarlet went out of her face, and
she swayed as if her strength was all gone. He caught her, and put her
back in the chair.

"Jim!" now in a tone of great surprise, and giving a little incredulous
laugh. "Why, I thought it was Herman Andersen."

Joe's heart seemed suddenly to enlarge and fill his whole body. There
was a ringing in his ears, as of joy-bells.

"Herman Andersen!" she said composedly. "Oh, have you all been blind?
Why, he is in love with Hanny! He came back to America to win her, and
he will if he serves seven years."

Doctor Joe looked at her in amaze. Ah, yes, they had been blind. They
had fenced out young Peter Beckman, and opened the door wide to this
unsuspected lover. And he knew as well as it Hanny had confessed it,
that her heart had gone to meet his on the magic sea of love, and they
would come into port no longer twain, but one.

He sat down on the broad arm of the chair. He could see Daisy's long
agitated breaths quiver through her body; and she looked tired and
spent. Poor little girl!

"No, I had never thought of Jim," he began gravely, "because he is so
fond of girls; a general worshipper. Not but what he might be very true
and devoted to one. He seems so young yet. Daisy,"--his voice
fell,--"did he ask you--"

Her head drooped a little, and her shining curls hid her face.

"Oh, do believe that when I thought of it first I did try to evade,
to--to laugh him out of it. That was a month ago. He kept saying little
things I would not heed or seem to understand. It has been such a gay,
happy summer for us all! And there was Charlie's engagement. Last
evening mamma and papa had gone out to call on a friend, and we were
quite alone--"

How much was volatile temperament and the love of pursuit, and how much
the deeper regard? Let him do his young brother justice.

"Charlie is young, to be sure, but he is a very steady-minded fellow,
and his mother's and Tudie's death brought them together in a very
sympathetic manner. Then Charles is about certain of a good position.
Jim has his fortune all to make. And you are right about some other
qualities. Herman Andersen would be a much better companion for you. Jim
is strong and energetic, full of life, and will always be among the busy
bustling things, and deep in excitements. He would wear you out."

"And don't you see that when he is five or six and twenty he will need
something better than an invalid wife, who might have to go to bed with
a headache when he was giving an important dinner, or having a brilliant
sort of evening with some stylish guests? He ought to have a wife
something like Mrs. Hoffman, who would help him to the finest things of
life. And though I seem well, I shall never be real strong; and I do not
care for grand society. I like a good deal of quiet and ease, and just
everyday living, a little painting when I feel inspired, a little
reading and talks with friends, and old-fashioned music. I sometimes
feel as if I was an old girl, and ought to have lived a century ago.
Perhaps I shall make a queer, stuffy old woman. And--I ought not to
marry."

"You shall not give up the divine right," he made answer, earnestly.

"Oh, I have a pretty face just now, and people, I find, do admire
beauty. But that will fade." Then she sprang up suddenly, parted her
long ringlets, and stood with her back to him. "See," and her voice
trembled, he knew there were tears in her eyes, "I have a little crook
in my back, and one high shoulder. There has to be half an inch of cork
in one boot-sole to keep me straight and from limping. No, I shouldn't
do for a handsome young man like Jim, for I may grow lamer and crookeder
as I grow older; nor for any man, although you try to comfort me with an
almost divine compassion."

She was sobbing in his arms then. It was not the first time she had wept
