Gray, who arched his back and waved his tail with 
an air of grandeur, and then sat down on the top 
step and began to wash his face, while Father 
Underhill was planning to take them all for a 
drive late in the afternoon. 
Pussy Gray watched his little mistress out of 
one green eye, and washed over one ear. He was 
just going over the other when Nora caught him. 
 
"Why do you stop him?" asked Daisy. 
" Because he wants to make it rain and spoil our 
day. Pussy Gray- -if you do ! ' 
"But it wouldn't really?" 
" Well, it 's a sure sign when he goes over both 
ears. When I don't want it to rain, I stop 
him." 
" But suppose he does it when he is by him- 
self? " 
" I think sometimes he runs away and does it en 
the sly. Aunt Patty says it is as sure as sure can 
be." 
Pussy Gray winked at Hanny, as if he said he 
didn't believe in signs, and that he should wash 
over both ears when he found a chance. 
Dele was bright and merry. She " bossed " the 
house, for Mrs. Whitney had subsided into novel- 
reading again, and now took books out of the 
Mercantile Library. A woman was doing the Sat- 
urday morning's work, and scrubbing the areas. 
After that she went over the front one with a red 
wash that looked like paint, and freshened it. The 
girls took a run in the yard. There was a long 
flower-bed down the side of the fence, and at one 
end all manner of sweet herbs, lavender, thyme, 
and rosemary, sweet verbena, and then tansy and 
camomile, and various useful things. 
" Camomile tea is good for you when you lose 
your appetite," said Nora; "but it's awful bitter. 
Aunt Patty cuts off the leaves and blossoms of the 
sweet herbs, and sews them up in little bags of fine 
muslin, and lays them among the clothes and the 
 
nice towels and pillow-cases. And it makes them 
all smell just delicious." 
The air was full of fragrance now. They played 
tag around the grass-plot. Daisy sat on the stoop 
and said she didn't mind, though she gave a little 
sigh, and wondered how it would feel to run about. 
The little lame girl in Houston Street could get 
over the ground pretty rapidly. She had inter- 
ested Doctor Joe in her, and he had hunted up 
the child's mother, who wouldn't listen to anything 
being done for her. 
" Sure," said she, " if it's the Lord's will to send 
this affliction to her, I 'll not be flying in the face 
of Providence. She can manage, and she 's impi- 
dent enough now. There 'd be no livin' with her 
if she had two good legs. And I 'll not have any 
doctor cuttin' her up into mince-meat." 
Pussy Gray came and sat beside Daisy with a 
flick of the ear and turn of the tail, as if he said : 
" We 'll let those foolish girls fly about and squeal 
and laugh and get half roasted, while we sit here at 
leisure and enjoy ourselves." 
Afterward they swung, and then went up to 
Nora's play-house. Aunt Patty had given her a 
rag doll that she had when she was a little girl, and 
it was over fifty years old. It was undeniably 
sweet, because it had been steeped in lavender, 
but it was not very pretty. There was a curious 
little wooden cradle Aunt Patty's brother had 
made. All the children's story-books were up 
here in a case Dele had made out of a packing- 
box. 
They thought after a little they would rather go 
over in the Park. Nora took the key. It was 
very pleasant; and they watched the carts and 
waggons going by, and the pedestrians. Presently 
a young woman unlocked the gate at the lower 
end, and came in with two little children rather 
qucerly dressed. She had a white muslin cap on 
her head, very high in front. We often see them 
now, but then they were a rarity. The little chil- 
dren had very black eyes and curly black hair, 
and stared curiously at the group of girls. 
" They 're French," explained Nora. "They live 
a few doors down below. And they can't speak a 
word of English, nor the maid either, though we 
do sometimes talk a little. There are two quite 
big boys, then the mother and father, and the 
grandmother and grandfather. The old people 
come out and sit on the stoop, now that it is warm. 
He reads French books to her, and she makes 
lace. About four o'clock, the servant brings out a 
tea-table, and they have some tea and little bits of 
cake. They do it all summer long, Aunt Patty 
says, and the old lady is beautiful,- -just like a 
picture." 
The girls walked down a little. The maid 
smiled and nodded. The children made queer 
stiff bows, both alike, though they were girl and 
boy ; but they looked half afraid. The maid said 
'Bon jour' to Nora, who replied with a longer 
sentence. And then she began to explain in Eng- 
lish and her scanty French that these were her 
friends, and that they were studying French in 
 
school. The Deans talked a little ; but Hanny 
was too shy, and the conversation would have 
been very amusing to a spectator. But just when 
it was getting quite exciting, and they couldn't 
make each other understand at all, Hanny caught 
sight of Delia waving her handkerchief from the 
front stoop, which was a signal that dinner was 
ready, so they all curtsied and said good-bye. 
Afterward Aunt Patty showed them her " treas- 
ures," some very odd dishes and pitchers that were 
more than a hundred years old, and some jewels, 
and the gown Aunt Clem had worn to Washington's 
Inauguration, and told them about Mrs. Washing- 
ton and going to the old theatre in John Street. 
She had some beautiful combs, and buckles that 
her father used to wear, and kid-gloves that had 
long arms and came most up to her shoulders. 
She told the children so many entertaining stories 
that before the afternoon seemed half gone Mr. 
Underbill came for them. Nora wanted to go also. 
"You can take her home with you," said Dele; 
" and I 'll come up for her this evening. I 'm just 
wild to see Mrs. Underbill and the boys. I hope 
the children have had a good tune. I 've hardly 
had a glimpse of them except at dinner." 
They crossed the ferry and went over to Jersey. 
It was still pretty wild and country-like, but the 
trees and shrubs and bloom everywhere lent it 
a glory. The children chatted merrily, and all 
agreed the day was too short. 
"But you can come again," said Nora. 
When the Deans sprang out, Charles Reed stood 
 
by the stoop talking to Mr. Dean. Nora said the 
place hadn't changed a bit, and she wished she 
was back again. There were nothing but old peo- 
ple in Beach Street, and she had no little girls to 
play with. She didn't know what she should do 
when vacation came. 
They were just through supper when Delia ar- 
rived, and she insisted upon sitting down at the 
table and having a cup of Mrs. Underbill's good 
tea. She was her olden jolly self, and had her 
brother's letters almost by heart. She thought 
them a great deal brighter and more amusing than 
those published in the " Tribune." 
" But I like those," exclaimed Ben ; " I 'm cutting 
them out for a scrap-book. I just wish I was with 
him ! " 
" And he would like to have you," returned 
Dele. " I don't believe he ever took so much of a 
fancy to any one as he did to you." 
They talked books a little. No, Dele had not 
written any more stories. The old ladies took a 
good deal of her time. And she had been study- 
ing. She wished she were going to school again ; 
she should appreciate it so much more. She was 
reading the English essayists and Wordsworth, 
and learning about the great men and women. 
Ben walked out to the Bowery to put them in 
the stage; and Dele said, rather ruefully: - 
" I just wish we could study and read together. 
I miss The. so much, I could always ask him ques- 
tions ; but now I have to look up everything my- 
self, and it 's slow work," 
" Dele has quite a family on her hands," said 
John, when she had gone. " She 's getting to be 
rather good-looking, too. Her eyes are very fine." 
" But she doesn't grow much tidier," returned 
his mother. 
" Her hair is curly and always looks tumbled," 
was the half-apologising rejoinder. " But she is 
very bright, and she 'll do something with herself." 
Mrs. Underbill glanced sharply at her son. There 
was no danger in Ben being a little soft about 
Delia Whitney ; but she was surprised at John's 
commendation. 
Doctor Joe walked down to see how his patient 
had stood the day. Her mother had been almost 
afraid to have her go, lest " something might 
happen." She was very tired, of course, and glad 
to take to the reclining chair with all the pillows ; 
but her eyes were in a glow, and her cheeks a 
pretty pink that Mrs. Jasper was quite sure was 
undue excitement. 
" It was just splendid," Daisy declared ; u Mam- 
ma, I do want to be like other girls, and see what 
is going on in the world. The old ladies were so 
quaint ; and it was wonderful to have seen President 
Washington and so many famous people. And 
what interested me, was her talking about them 
just like ordinary persons. And Nora is so amus- 
ing. I want to learn French so that I can really 
talk it. You can't imagine how funny it was in 
the Park, trying to make each other understand. 
Oh, there are so many things I want to learn." 
"There will be time enough/' said her mother. 
 
When Doctor Joe took her hand and bent over 
her to say good-night, she whispered softly, 
" I did try to forget my own misfortune, and I 
was very happy. I am going to be brave. It is 
such a lovely world ; and it is such a splendid 
thing to be happy Doctor Joe, you are my Mr. 
Greatheart." 
 
CHAPTER IV 
A WEDDING 
THERE was a very fine noisy Fourth of July, 
and shortly after that came vacation. The Jas- 
pers were going to Lebanon Springs, and then to 
Saratoga. Hanny came near to envying Daisy. 
She and Margaret had to visit both grandmothers, 
and go over to Tarrytown, for the Morgans had 
insisted upon it. 
Hanny and her father had been reading some of 
Washington Irvirig's stories, beside his famous 
history. He was abroad now; he had been sent 
as Minister to the Court of Madrid, that wonder- 
ful Spanish city with its Court so full of interest 
and beauty. She had been learning about it in 
her history. But this old house was not grand, 
only in its splendid elms and maples and lindens 
and tall arbor-vitaes. Wolfert's Roost was almost 
hidden by them; but you could catch glimpses of 
its curious roof, full of quaint corners and projec- 
tions, and the old-fashioned stone mansion said to 
be modelled after the cocked hat of Peter the 
Headstrong. Its low stories were full of nooks 
and angles. There were roses and hollyhocks like 
rows of sentinels, and sweet brier clambering 
about. The little girl thought of it many a time 
afterward, when it had become much more famous, 
as Sunnyside. Indeed, she was to sit on the old 
piazza overlooking the river and listen to the 
pleasant voice that had charmed so many people, 
and study the drawings of Rip Van Winkle and 
Sleepy Hollow, to hear about Katrina Van Tassel, 
and the churn full of water that Fammetie Van 
Blarcom brought over from Holland because she 
was sure there could be no water good to drink in 
the new country. 
Already she was coming to have a great interest 
in people who wrote books and stories. It seemed 
such a wonderful gift. 
Dr. Hoffman paid the cousins the compliment 
of a visit. Afterward there were mysterious com- 
munings between the sisters. 
Wedding presents were gifts of real preference 
and affection in those days. A girl had her "set- 
ting out" from home, and perhaps some one gave 
her an heirloom for her name, or because she was 
an especial favourite. 
'Dr. Hoffman 's well-to-do," said Joanna; "and 
Margaret's folks won't let her go empty-handed. 
But I 'd like to have some of our things go where 
they would be appreciated. We 've no one of our 
very own to leave them to," and Miss Morgan 
sighed. "Margaret doesn't consider store arti- 
cles so much better than those made long ago. 
Let 's each give her a pair of linen sheets. I 've 
a dozen good ones now, and, land sakes! we 
sha'n't wear out half our bedding. And my 
 
tablecloth of the basket pattern, and two towels. 
And - - let me see - - that white wool blanket of 
Aunt Hetty's. It was spun and woven in 1800; 
and the sheep were raised here on the old farm. 
Some peculiar kind they were, with long, soft 
fleece." 
"Well," said Famie, slowly, "there's my 
snowball tablecloth and two towels. 'Rastus's 
wife won't ever care for them with her fine Paris 
things. But we won't give away the silver, nor 
the old pewter flagon, nor the basin and cups. 
They've the crown mark on them, 1710 for a 
date. Deary me, they 'll outlast us," and she 
sighed also. 
Roseann agreed. Six sheets and pillow-cases, 
three tablecloths and half-a-dozen towels, and 
two blankets, one spun and woven by their own 
mother. The initials and date were marked on 
them in old-fashioned cross-stitch, which was a 
little more ornate than regular sampler-stitch. 
Aunt Hetty's blanket had been made from the 
wool of an especial cosset lamb that had lost its 
mother and been brought up by hand. The little 
girl was very much interested. 
" Did it follow her about ? ' she asked. 
"Dearsakes!' and Aunt Famie laughed. "I 
just guess it did. It grew very troublesome, 
I 've heard tell, and was quite quality, always 
wanting to come into the sitting-room. And it 
would curl down at Aunt Hetty's feet like a dog. 
She saved the wool every year, and spun it, and 
laid it away until she had enough. But I don't 
 
believe it went to school, although it could spell 
one word.' : 
"One word!' cried the little girl, in amaze. 
"What was that?" 
" Why b-a ba, of course. They said it could 
spell through the whole lesson, and I don't see 
why not. I 've heard lambs make a dozen differ- 
ent sounds.' 1 
The little girl laughed. She was very fond of 
listening to what Aunt Famie did when she was 
little; and they went to call upon some curious 
old people who kept to the Dutch ways and wore 
the old costume. Some of them had wooden clo<rs 
for rainy weather. When they talked real Dutch, 
Hanny found it was quite different from German. 
They had a picture of some old ancestor's house 
with the windmill in the front yard. 
The drives about were beautiful then, and so 
many places had queer old legends. Dr. Hoff- 
man was very much interested, and it seemed to 
Hanny as if she had strayed over into Holland. 
She resolved when she went home to ask Ben to 
get her a history of Holland, so she and her father 
might read it together. Her mother never had 
any time. 
Margaret was much surprised at her gifts, and 
thanked the cousins with warmest gratitude. 
Even Grandmother Van Kortlandt had hinted 
"that she wasn't going to save up everything for 
Haneran. ' But the elder people in those days 
were fond of holding on to their possessions until 
the very last. 
 
Uncle David came up for them and took them 
to White Plains, where they had a nice visit; and 
grandmother selected some articles from her store 
for the prospective bride. 
Hanny remembered what Cousin Archer had 
said about the mittens, and asked Uncle David. 
He found his hook, and, sure enough, it was some- 
thing like a crochet-needle. He took what the 
little girls called single stitch. But he admitted 
that Hanny' s pretty edgings and tidies were 
quite wonderful. 
" I thought the Germans must have brought 
the knowledge to the country," she said. "How 
long have you known it ? ' 
"Oh, since my boyhood," and he gave a smile. 
" I heard a very old man say once that Noah set 
his sons to work in the Ark making fishing-nets. 
Perhaps Mrs. Noah set her daughter-in-laws to 
crocheting, as you call it. Forty days was a 
pretty long spell of rainy weather, when they had 
no books or papers to read, and couldn't go out 
to work in the garden. " 
" Didn't they have any books ? ' Hanny't eyes 
opened wide. 
"All their writing was done on stone tablets, 
and very little of that. ' : 
"I think I wouldn't have liked living then. 
Books are so splendid. And you get to know 
about so many people. But there was the Bible," 
and the child's voice dropped to a reverent tone. 
"Still, if Moses wrote the first books, that was 
a long while after the Flood.'
 
Hanny's vague idea was that the Bible had been 
created in the beginning, like Adam and Eve. 
Cousin Ann and Aunt Eunice were as much in 
love with the little girl as ever, but were tremen- 
dously surprised at her stock of knowledge. It 
didn't seem possible that one little girl could 
know so much. That she could play tunes on the 
piano, and repeat ever so many French words, then 
explain what they meant in English, was a marvel. 
But the child never seemed spoiled by the admi- 
ration. 
They had to come down to Yonkers, for Uncle 
Paid and Aunt Crete would have been hurt and 
jealous. Only it did not seem now to Hanny as 
if she had ever lived there. The old kitchen, the 
creek that went purling along, bearing fleets of 
ducks and geese, and the wide old porch looked 
natural, but the daily living was so changed! 
Old black Aunt Mary was dead. Some of the 
neighbours had gone away. Cousin Retty had a 
new baby, a little girl; but she said it was the 
Grossest thing alive, and it did seem to cry a good 
deal. It couldn't compare with Stephen's baby, 
who was always laughing and jolly. 
They had to stop at Fordham to see some 
cousins. When people live a century or so in 
one place and intermarry, they get related to a 
good many people. And there was a sweet little 
grandmother here, who, in her girlhood, had the 
same name as the little visitor- Hannah Under- 
bill. There was no Ann in it to be sure. And 
now her name was Hannah Horton. 
There were lots of gay, rollicking cousins. The 
little girl felt almost afraid of the big boys, and 
she was used to boys, too. 
Her mother had said she might make a visit 
with the Odell girls. They had grown and 
changed ; and Hanny felt quite as if she were 
undersized. Mr. Odell had been building a new 
part to the house ; and oh, what a lovely garden 
they had ! It made the little girl almost envious. 
Margaret left her there for several days. At 
least, Dr. Hoffman drove up one afternoon and 
took Margaret home, as Hanny's visit wasn't 
near finished. They had to talk about their 
schools and the girls they knew. Polly and Janey 
wanted to hear about the First Street girls and 
Daisy Jasper, who was getting well, and Nora, 
who had moved away, and the quaint old ladies 
in Beach Street. 
There was a splendid big cat at the Odell's 
who liked nothing better than being nursed, and 
two kittens that Hanny never tired of watching, 
they were so utterly funny in their antics, and 
seemed to do so much actual reasoning, as to cause 
and effect, that it amazed her. And, oh, the beau- 
tiful country ways and wild flowers on every hand ! 
It does not look so now. One wonders where 
all the people have come from to fill the rows and 
rows of houses, and to keep busy about the mills 
and factories. But then the great city had only 
about five hundred thousand inhabitants, and did 
not need to overflow into suburban districts. 
It seemed strange for the little girl to come 
 
home to a city street. It looked narrow and bare, 
with its cobblestones and paved sidewalks. And, 
oh, what a racket the waggons made ! and she was 
amazed at the crowds of people, as she thought 
there were then. 
But inside everything was homelike and de- 
lightful. She was so glad to see her mother and 
father and the boys. Ben looked like a young 
man. Jim was to go to a preparatory school for 
a year, and then enter Columbia College. Mrs. 
Craven had sold her house, and gone up to Seventh 
Street, and was to have quite a young ladies' 
school. Josie Dean had decided to study for a 
teacher. That made her seem quite grown 
up. 
Old Mr. Beekman had died while the little girl 
was away; and Katschina had grieved herself to 
death, and followed her master. Annette had a 
lover, but of course she could not marry in some 
time. The old farm was to be sold at least, 
streets were to be cut through it, and the outlying 
lots sold off. Mrs. Beekman was to keep the 
down-town house for her part. 
And now it was considered that Stephen Under- 
bill had done a grand thing for himself in marry- 
ing Dolly Beekman. Mr. Beekman owned no end 
of real estate, was indeed much richer than people 
imagined. The girls would each have a big slice. 
But Dolly was just as sweet and plain, and as 
much interested in everybody as before. She was 
so ready to help and advise Margaret, and go out 
shopping with her. For was she not very wise 
and experienced, having been married two whole 
years ! 
Dr. Hoffman had bought his house up-town 
as well. Some people scouted the idea that the 
city could be crowded even in fifty years. But 
the long-headed ones reasoned that it must go up, 
as it could not expand in breadth, and "down- 
town" must be given over to business. 
Hanny went up to see the new house one Satur- 
day. The front basement was to be the office, 
and was being fitted up with some shelves and 
cabinets. The back basement was the kitchen. 
There were two large parlors and a third room, 
that was the dining-room. And one thing inter- 
ested the little girl greatly, this was the "dumb 
waiter." 
"Of course it can't talk," said she, laughingly. 
; 'And it can't hear; but you can make it obey.'  
"It can creak and groan Tvhen it gets dry for a 
little oil. And it will be YiL:- a camel if you put 
too heavy a load on it," returned the Doctor. 
" Does the camel groan ? ' 
"Horribly! And he won't stir an inch toward 
getting up until you lighten his load." 
There was a pretty pantry across the corner, with 
a basin to wash china and silver, so it would not 
need to go downstairs. Hanny thought she would 
like to come sometime and wash the pretty 
dishes. 
Upstairs there were three rooms and a bath, 
and beautiful closets, and on the third floor three 
rooms again. 
 
" But what will you do with all of them ? ' asked 
Hanny. 
Margaret had said the same thing to her lover. 
And Mrs. Underbill said it was an awful extrav- 
agance to have such a great house for two people. 
But John Underhill declared Dr. Hoffman had 
done just the right thing, buying up-town. He 
would settle himself in a first-class practice pres- 
ently, as the well-to-do people kept moving 
thither. 
There had been a good deal of discussion about 
the wedding. Dr. Hoffman wanted to take Mar- 
garet to Baltimore, where his married sister re- 
sided, and an aunt, his mother's sister, who was 
too feeble to undertake a journey. They would 
go on to Washington as well. Wedding journeys 
were not imperative, but often taken. An evening 
party at home seemed too much for Mrs. Under- 
hill; and Dolly, being in mourning, could not 
lead any gaieties. 
She cut the Gordian knot, however, a church 
wedding, with cards for all the friends, and a 
reception at home. They would take the train at 
six from Jersey City. Mr. Underhill was rather 
sorry not to have an old-fashioned festivity. But 
Miss Cynthia said this was just the thing. 
So the marriage was at St. Thomas' church at 
two o'clock. A cousin of Dolly's and a school 
friend were bridesmaids, though Annette Beek- 
man had been chosen. The bride wore a fine 
India mull that flowed around her like a fleecy 
cloud, Dolly's veil, and orange blossoms, for it 
 
was good luck to be married in something bor- 
rowed. The little girl headed the procession, 
carrying a basket of flowers, and looked daintily 
sweet. 
The " Home Journal," the society paper of that 
day, spoke of the beautiful young couple in quite 
extravagant terms. Mrs. Underbill said rather 
tartly afterward, " That Margaret was well enough 
looking ; but she had never thought of setting her 
up for a beauty." Yet down in the depths of her 
heart her mother love had a little ache because 
her last born would never be as beautiful. But 
Mr. Underhill considered they had not been 
praised a bit too much, and sent in a year's sub- 
scription to the paper. 
Miss Cynthia was in her glory. She seemed 
one of the people who never grow old, and though 
a great talker, was seldom sharp or severe. 
Everybody knew she could get married if she de- 
sired to, so she rather gloried in staying single. 
Margaret cut her wedding-cake, and the piece 
with the ring fell to Dolly's cousin, who turned 
scarlet, which brought out a general laugh. There 
was much wishing of joy, and presently Margaret 
went upstairs and put on her pretty grey silk with 
the " drawn ' bonnet to match, and the grey cloth 
msite, looking as handsome as she had in her 
wedding gown. 
They left so many people behind no one had a 
chance to feel lonesome. There were ever so 
many relations who were going to stay for a visit, 
and shop a little. People were given to hospi- 
 
tality in those days. The constricted living of 
flats had not come into existence. And your 
friend would have felt insulted to be taken to a 
restaurant for dinner, instead of at your own 
house. 
Hanny had quite a girls' tea-party afterward. 
Martha spread a table for them upstairs. And 
the funny thing was, that her father and the boys 
teased to come, and her mother really had to rush 
to the rescue. But they did let Doctor Joe 
remain, and they had a delightful time. 
Josie and Tudie and Nora told how they would 
do when they were married. 
" Now, Hanny ! ' Daisy Jasper had not spoken. 
It was not likely any one would want to marry a 
lame girl, and the others were too kind to make it 
a matter of embarrassment. 
" I don't believe I can get married," said Hanny, 
with sweet seriousness. " I shouldn't like to leave 
father, and mother will want somebody, for the 
boys will be away.' 
Daisy stretched out her hand. "We'll just 
have a good time together," she rejoined, smilingly. 
"And if Doctor Joe doesn't get married, 
we'll work slippers for him and cigar cases, and 
if we could learn how, we might make him a 
dressing-gown. " 
" If you will be as good as that, I don't think I 
will get married. And when I drop in, you can 
give me a cup of tea, and we 'll have the best of 
times. I hope I won't be very queer.' 
He said it so seriously, they all laughed. 
 
Afterward he declared he was going to take all 
the girls home. That was a bachelor's preroga- 
tive, and he would begin at once. He took the 
Deans first, then Nora, whom he put in the 
Bowery stage. Daisy and Hanny spent that 
leisure admiring baby Stephen, who had six 
cunning white teeth and curly hair, which the 
little girl doted on. 
Daisy told the tea-party over to her aunt and 
her mother, and was very happy. And she felt 
someway as if she had settled her life, and 
shouldn't mind it very much. But husbands 
who were as tender as Dr. Hoffman, and babies 
like laughing, dimpled Stevie! 
Were there some childish tears in her eyes? 
But the main thing for her was to get strong and 
be courageous, and take her share of the world's 
knowledges and beautiful things. She wondered 
sometimes why the Lord Jesus, who was so wise 
and good and pitiful, should have let this misfor- 
tune come upon her, or why, when all the doctors 
were so in earnest, they could not have made her 
straight and well. And when people said, 'Oh, 
what a pity, with that lovely face ! ' she thought 
she could have borne it better if she had been 
plainer. 
When the great love that thinks for its neigh- 
bour imbues us all, we shall cease to make per- 
sonal comments, and endeavour to bear each 
others burdens with silent, tender grace. 
Doctor Joe was her comfort and inspiration. 
No one could ever estimate what his kindly inter- 
est had done for her. He was so cheerful and full 
of fun and sunshine. Elderly women had begun 
to pet up the young doctor, in spite of his youth. 
In fact there were many virtues ascribed to 
experience in those days ; and now we have learned 
the truth is in the application, that living through 
a great deal doesn't always bring wisdom. 
Grandmother Van Kortlandt and Aunt Katrina 
had a fine time visiting Stephen. They were 
quite stylish, old-fashioned style, that wore fine 
English thread-laces with the scent of lavender, 
and had their silvery hair done up in puffs with 
side-combs. They were a little precise and for- 
mal, and would have been horrified if the children 
had not said "Yes, ma'am," and "No, ma'am." 
No free and easy manners for them ! 
The little girl was quite sure she loved Grand- 
mother Underhill the best. Both called her 
Haneran, as if they were a little jealous of a full 
share in her name. Grandmother made quite a 
long visit, for she said, " She might never come 
again, she was getting rather feeble. She didn't 
expect to live to see the little girl married." 
Hanny's father declared, "She couldn't be 
married until she was twenty-five, just in time to 
save her from being an old maid.' 
"But I won't be very old at twenty-five," she 
replied, smiling out of her big innocent eyes. 
"And I thought I wouldn't get married at 
all." 
They did miss Margaret. But the little girl 
had to study hard, and wait on her mother, and 
 
practise her music, and visit. There were so 
many places clamouring for her. 
The boys at Houston Street missed Jim Under - 
hill also, though he often came up that way when 
he could get off, which meant when he did not 
have to stay for a recitation. Though they were 
up to pranks, they were not cruel or malicious. 
If they could "make fun," and rhyme a fellow's 
name ridiculously, and ring door-bells now and 
then, or leave a nicely done-up parcel on some 
one's stoop, wrapped and tied and directed, con- 
taining a box of ashes, or a brick, they were sat- 
isfied. They still considered it fun to have Biddy 
Brady dance, and Limpy Dick, as they called the 
lame girl, run a race. She hopped along with 
her hand on her lame knee with surprising 
rapidity. 
CHAPTER V 
WINTER HAPPENINGS 
MARGARET came home and had a party at her 
house, " Infair " the older people called it. Then 
a family tea at home, and another at Stephen's. 
Mrs. Verplank, the Doctor's half-sister, gave her a 
very elegant reception. 
She was oddly changed, somehow, just as sweet, 
but with more dignity and composure ; and Jim 
couldn't make her turn red by teasing her. The 
little girl noticed that her mother treated Mar- 
garet with a peculiar deference and never scolded 
her; and she said Philip to Dr. Hoffman. 
He had some serious talks with the little girl, 
for he pretended to be afraid she would love 
Dolly and Stephen the best. Everybody had a 
desire to hold her, because she was so little and 
light. She was not to make the baby an excuse 
to go the oftenest to Dolly's. 
" Oh, dear," she rejoined, with a sigh, " and if John 
should get married, and the rest of them, as they 
grow up, I wouldn't have any time left for myself. 
But Joe isn't going to be married." 
Dr. Hoffman laughed at that. 
John had a sweetheart. He always dressed up 
in his best on Wednesday night. Young men in 
those days thought of homes and families of their 
own. There were no clubs to take them in. 
An odd little incident happened to Margaret's 
menage. Stephen had one of Aunt Mary's grand- 
sons as porter in the store. Another, who had 
been brought up as a sort of house-servant to 
some elderly people that death had visited, came 
to the city, and Stephen sent him to Dr. Hoffman, 
who was inquiring about a factotum. He was a 
very well-looking and well-mannered young 
coloured lad, and knew how to drive and care for 
a horse. He was quite a cook also, and soon 
learned to do the marketing. 
Margaret kept house for herself, and enjoyed her 
pretty new china and beautiful cut-glass. And 
after a month or two Dolly persuaded her to rent 
two rooms to two ladies, the back room on the 
second floor, and one on the third. She was glad 
to have some company when the Doctor had to be 
out. One of the ladies coloured plates for maga- 
zines and illustrated books. This was done by 
hand then, and w r as considered quite artistic work. 
We had not printed in colours yet. The ladies 
were very refined, and had a small income beside 
the work. 
The Doctor took Margaret out every pleasant 
afternoon. His practice was not large enough to 
work him very severely. In the evening they read 
or sang, as she played very nicely now. But she 
missed the breezy boys and their doings, and her 
 
mother's cheery voice ordering every one about, 
and, oh, she missed the little girl who didn't come 
half often enough. 
She began a choice piece of work for her, a 
silk quilt. No one had gone insane over crazy 
work then. This was shapely, decorous diamonds, 
with the name of the wearer, or a date, embroid- 
ered on each block. The Morgans had given her 
pieces from Paris and Venice and Holland, and 
even Hong Kong. Some were a hundred and 
more years old, and were gowns of quite famous 
people. 
This fall the American Institute Fair was held 
at Niblo's Garden. There were many curious 
things. Both telegraphs had been put up, 
House's with its letter printing, Morse's with its 
cabalistic signs. How words could travel through 
a bit of wire puzzled most people. Uncle Paid 
went with them one afternoon. 
" No use to tell me," he declared. " The fellow 
at one end knows just what the fellow at the other 
end is going to say. Now if they sent it in a box, 
or a letter, it would look reasonable." 
"I'll send you a message," said Ben; " you 
go down at the end, and see if this doesn't come 
to you." 
He wrote on a slip of paper, and gave it to Uncle 
Paid, who went to the other end with a disbelieving 
shake of the head. And when the receiver wrote 
it out, and Uncle Paid compared it, the astonish- 
ment was indescribable. 
" There 's some jugglery about it," he still in- 
 
sisted. " Stands to reason a bit of wire can't really 
know what you say." 
Hanny brought home her telegraph message ; 
and when she showed it to Nora Whitney, the 
child declared it was like the queer things in some 
books her papa had, called hieroglyphics. But 
Doctor Joe told her a stranger thing than that. He 
found the verses in the Psalms that were supposed 
to prefigure the telegraph : 
" There is no speech nor language, where their voice is 
not heard. 
" Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their 
words to the end of the world." 
" But they can't go across the ocean," said the 
little girl, confidently. 
" Why, they are discussing the feasibility of 
crossing the Hudson with some kind of sunken 
cable. What we shall be doing fifty years from 
now and I shall not be such a dreadfully old 
man ! We are learning how to live longer as 
well." 
Fifty years ! and she would be as old as the 
grandmothers ! 
The other wonderful thing was the sewing- 
machine. Elias Howe had learned how to thread 
the needle, the opposite way, by putting the eye in 
the point. There was a little bent piece under- 
neath that caught the loop while a thread ran 
through it. They gave away samples, and every- 
