youth and beauty and intelligence and social position of the defendant,
the distinguished family which had been plunged into sorrow and disgrace
by her crime, the extraordinary interest the crime had excited
throughout the civilised world. He then gave a running account, clear
and straightforward and decisive, of what the prosecution would prove,
and concluded with a cold, terse, but reiterated warning that the
prisoner at the bar was entitled to no sympathy because of her sex and
position; that he and the jury were there for one purpose only: to
consider the facts of the case and to do their plain duty, utterly
regardless of consequences to the individual. Every word was chosen and
weighed, and told like the ring of a steel hammer on a steel plate.
Dr. Lewis was then called to prove the fact of Beverly Peele’s death,
and his vigorous story weighed heavily in the scales against the
defence. The moment the district attorney sat down Bourke was on his
feet. For a moment he stood lifting and shaking the loose cloth of the
table beside him; then asked one or two random questions which put the
witness for the prosecution quite at his ease. In the course of a moment
the witness began to writhe, and at the end of five minutes manifested
his consciousness of the fact that he was a small country practitioner,
to be regarded by any intelligent jury with contempt. Nevertheless, it
was impossible to shake his testimony.
He was followed by the New York physician, a man of eminence, who had
assisted at the death-bed, then by the coroner. The fact of young
Peele’s death being firmly established in the jury box, a chemist was
put upon the stand to testify that he had found morphine in the stomach
of the deceased. He was worried and badgered and ridiculed and derided
by Bourke, who temporarily infected everybody in the court room with his
scorn of the exercise of chemistry as applied to morphine in the stomach
of a dead man, but held his ground, having been maltreated in a like
manner many times before. Following, came a civil engineer, who
described the grounds and general position of Peele Manor to the jury;
and the testimony for the day was over.
The next morning the prosecution passed on to the motive. Honora was the
first witness called. She wore a black frock and hat, and looked
dignified and sad. In her clear childlike voice she described to the
jury her moment of confusion and horror when awakened from a profound
sleep by the prisoner; told the mournful story of the unavailing
attempts at resuscitation; and hesitatingly admitted, in full detail,
the unmistakable indifference of the wife. To the latter testimony Mr.
Bourke “objected,” as he had done to similar testimony by the doctors,
but the objection was over-ruled by the judge. She also admitted having
seen from her window the defendant returning from town after her early
visit on the morning of the “Eye” story, inappropriately attired in grey
and pink, and having discovered the newspapers in confusion on the
library floor before any other member of the household except the
prisoner had arisen. She related Patience’s previous complaint that her
husband always waited until she was in her first heavy sleep before
demanding the morphine, and her fear lest she should some night give him
an overdose. The jury must have been small headed indeed, to fail to
understand the district attorney’s insinuations regarding the prisoner’s
deep-laid scheme to avert suspicion.
As Honora gave her testimony Patience saw Mr. Bourke’s eyes sparkle. She
knew that some pregnant idea had flashed into that lightning-like brain.
As the district attorney took his seat he rose slowly and smiled
sociably at Honora. She bent her head slightly; she had always liked
him.
“Miss Mairs,” he said haltingly, his eyes wandering to the judge, as if
in search of inspiration, his hand flirting the loose cloth of the
table, “you are sure that Mrs. Peele wore a gray gown to New York that
morning?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And the condition of the newspapers seemed to you to indicate great
agitation of mind?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Yes, yes. And she returned in an hour or two, you say?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Miss Mairs!” he thundered, turning suddenly upon her and pointing a
rigid finger straight at her startled face, “are you sure that you were
asleep when Mrs. Peele awakened you on the night of Beverly Peele’s
death?”
Patience drew her breath sharply. She closed her eyes. Honora had not
been asleep that night! The certainty came to her as suddenly and as
positively as it had come to Bourke.
For the fraction of a moment Honora hesitated. Every man and woman in
the court room was breathless. Several had started to their feet.
“Quite sure,” she replied finally, and that silver shallow voice did not
falter.
“You are sure that you heard no one go to the lavatory that night,
before Mrs. Peele spoke to you?” He hurled the words at her as the Great
Judge might hurl the final sentence on Judgment Day.
“Sure.”
“Was your door open that night?”
“I don’t remember.”
Patience leaned over and whispered to Lansing, who sprang forward and
whispered to Bourke.
“The night was hot,” continued Bourke. “Were you not in the habit of
leaving your door open on hot nights?”
“Sometimes.”
“Was it not always your custom?”
“Not always. When I thought of it I opened the door, but I frequently
forgot it.”
“Yes! Yes! You are quite sure you cannot remember whether or not it was
open on that night?”
“I cannot remember.”
“Do you remember any other nights on which Mrs. Peele went to the
lavatory to drop the morphine?”
“Yes, sir; a great many.”
“But of this all important night you remember nothing?”
“No, sir.”
“Yes! Mrs. Peele never was called upon to drop the morphine until after
twelve o’clock. Were you in the habit of lying awake until late?”
“Yes.”
“But on this night you went to sleep early?”
“Yes.”
“You heard or saw—you are on your oath, remember—nothing whatever
until Mrs. Peele called you?”
“Nothing.”
“You can go.—She is lying,” he whispered to Patience. “Damn her, I’ll
make her speak yet if I have to throttle it out of her.”
Mr. Peele was the witness next called. He was treated with extreme
diffidence by the district attorney, and even the judge gave him a
fraternal smile. He told the story of the momentous night with parental
indignation finally controlled, then, in spite of repeated “objections”
and constant nagging, the significant tale of wifely indifference and
desertion, and read to the jury “that cruel letter written to a dying
man” the day before the defendant returned to nurse her husband. He
repeated with the dramatic effect of the legal actor those dark
insinuations of the prisoner: “You had better let me go! I feel that I
shall kill him if I stay!” And later in the town house when she had
struck her husband in the face: “You had better keep him out of my way.
Do you know that once I tried to kill my own mother?”
He told of her eager interest in untraceable poisons one night when the
subject of murder had come up at the dinner-table, her cold-blooded
analysis of human motives.
Then he passed on to the painfully significant history of the day before
the death: her demand for a divorce; her fury at her husband’s refusal;
her acknowledgment that she had quarrelled violently with the deceased a
short time before calling the family to his death-bed.
As he spoke Patience’s blood congealed. The woman he depicted was enough
to inspire any jury with horror. It was herself and not herself, a
Galatea manufactured by a clever lawyer.
But it was Mr. Bourke’s privilege to give the Galatea a soul. Despite
the older man’s greater legal experience, his superior wariness and
subtlety, he was forced to admit that his son was a fool; that his son’s
wife was a woman of brilliant intellect driven to desperation at being
tied down to a fool; that so long as she had lived with him she had done
her duty; that when she had returned as his nurse she had fulfilled her
part of the contract to the letter; that never had she given her husband
cause for real jealousy; that the witness himself had made a companion
of her, and that he had been bitterly disappointed in his son.
The terrible facts could not be stricken out, but Mr. Peele,
nevertheless, was made to pass the most uncomfortable hours of his life.
“And in spite of these threats,” exclaimed Bourke, with the accentuation
of one addressing an idiot at large, “in spite of the precision with
which you remembered them, you permitted your family to implore her to
return and become your son’s nurse; you permitted her to sleep in a room
communicating with his, where, in a fit of passion—if she is the woman
you profess to believe her to be—she could have murdered him in the
dead of night with a carving knife or a hatchet, before any one—even
the lightly sleeping Miss Mairs—could have flown to the rescue; you
permitted her—” he turned suddenly and faced the jury, then wheeled
about and regarded Mr. Peele with scornful inquiry—“you permitted her
to drop morphine for your son, and to have unrestrained access to the
drug, knowing that he in his agony would swallow whatever she gave him
without question. Will you kindly explain to the jury whether this mode
of proceeding was ingenuousness on your part, or criminal connivance?”
Mr. Peele’s under lip pressed the upper almost to the septum of his
nose. His eyes half closed and glittered unpleasantly; but he controlled
himself and answered,—
“I paid no attention to her threats at the time.”
“Ah! You did not believe in them? You admit that?”
“I classed them with the usual hysterical ravings of women. That was my
error.”
“State, if you please, your specific reasons for your change of mind.
You will hardly, as a lawyer, claim to have been converted to the
defendant’s capacity for crime by the mere fact that your son died of an
overdose of morphine?”
And throughout the long day Mr. Bourke hectored him, fighting him, point
by point, smashing to bits his testimony relative to the events of the
day preceding the death, evidence to which he was not an eye-witness,
which he had received at second hand from his wife and son. The “cruel
letter written to a dying man” was disposed of in a similar manner.
“You believed your son to be in a precarious condition when you
counselled them to send for your son’s wife?”
“I did.”
“But you believed with the doctors that if she returned, thereby
bringing him peace of mind as well as tender care, he had excellent
chances for life?”
“I did.”
“And Mrs. Burr was instructed to present that phase of the question to
the defendant, with all the force of which she was capable?”
“Yes.”
“And the defendant so understood it?”
“I suppose she did.”
“And yet you assert that this purely business-like letter, written by a
self-respecting woman, was addressed to a dying man, while at the same
time you assert that this man could be cured by the gratification of a
whim, and that you had taken particular pains to make the defendant
aware of the fact!”
When Mr. Peele finally left the stand, he looked battered and limp.
                                  XIV
As soon as the court had opened on the following morning, Mrs. Peele was
called. She looked haughtily askance at the worn Bible as the clerk
rattled off the oath, bent her head as would she whiff upon what
plebeian lips had touched so often and so evidently, and took the
witness chair as were she mounting a throne. She was apparelled in
crape. Only her intimate friends could have told whether the backward
bend of her head was due to the weight of her veil or the weight of her
ancestors. At first she stared at the district attorney with haughty
resentment, as, for the benefit of the humble jury, he curtly asked her
several direct questions; but remembering that he was “a Sturges,” and
also recalling her husband’s admonitions, she unbent, and even
condescended to address the jury. Her tale of the night in no wise
differed from her husband’s; but her accentuation of Patience’s dark
threats and marital deficiencies was all her own. Her suggestion of a
lover in the case caused a sudden movement in the jury box, although the
stolid faces did not relax. Under cross-examination much of her
testimony was as effectually demolished as her husband’s had been.
Two maid servants followed. They testified to violent quarrels between
the young couple. Then the butler testified to the reiterant and
emphatic command of the prisoner on the day before the death to send to
New York for morphine.
The prosecution produced its trump card: the stable boy who had spied
upon the interviews between the prisoner and the mysterious lover. The
man had evidently been carefully rehearsed—as Bourke later on pointed
out to the jury—for his memory of the eight or ten interviews he had
witnessed needed little refreshing. His “best recollection” was given
glibly and ungrammatically. He dilated upon the young man’s remarkable
personal beauty, and observed that it far outshone his beloved Mr.
Beverly’s. They had talked principally of books in all but the last two
interviews, but had looked perfectly happy. His account of the last two
interviews created a profound impression in the court room, even the
jury leaning forward slightly. The judge frowned and wheeled his chair
sharply when the man gave the gist of the prisoner’s matter-of-fact
objection to living with a man who was not her husband.
Mr. Bourke’s rich voice had never rung with deeper indignation and
disgust, never shaped itself to more cutting sarcasm than when he made
the man see himself and the jury see him as a coward, a cur, a spy, a
liar, an eager schemer for an innocent woman’s life. “You felt it your
duty,” he concluded, “to spy upon a woman of irreproachable reputation
who met a friend in an open wood in broad daylight—Yes, yes,” with all
the lingering scornful emphasis which only he could give that simple
word. “You never felt yourself a cowardly scoundrel meddling in what was
none of your business—No! No!” He turned to the jury with the passion
still upon his face, but when he took his seat he smiled encouragingly
to his admiring young client.
“Wouldn’t he make an actor?” whispered Simms. “I never saw him do the
lofty indignation act with finer effect.”
“Well, he would be a great actor, at least,” retorted Patience, “and I
am convinced that you would be a very small one.”
“Just wait,” said Simms, angrily. “I’ve got to talk to this jury about
you in a day or two, and if you don’t forget I ever doubted you I’ll eat
my hat. The best lawyer’s the best fakir, and a few days from now you’ll
see what an ambitious man I am.”
“Miss Rosita Thrailkill,” called the district attorney when the court
opened next morning. The audience stood up to a man.
A plump willowy Spanish figure undulated behind the jury box, kissed the
Bible reverently, and ascended the witness stand. Rosita was clad in
black and yellow, a mantilla in place of a hat, and many diamonds. She
looked as pretty and as naughty as possible. As she met Patience’s eyes,
she wafted her a kiss, and the prisoner groaned in spirit. She gave her
name and birthplace with melodious caressing accent and her marked
precision of speech. Yes, the defendant had been her dear friend, her
best friend, her only intimate friend. Yes, with unaffected reluctance,
Mrs. Sparhawk had been disreputable, and Patience had once attempted her
life. Yes, she was the prima donna of light opera known as La Rosita.
Did she appear before the public in tights and scant attire? Yes, why
not? Had she not had a number of lovers? Objected to and sustained.
Flashing indignation of soft Spanish eyes. Did she not have the
reputation of being a woman of loose and lawless life? Objected to and
sustained. Angry rattle of fan. Was it not in her house that the
prisoner was arrested? Yes, it was! and she loved her Patita and would
always give her shelter.
When the district attorney sat down with an ugly smile on his thin
mouth, Bourke, muttering anathema, rose to his feet.
“Was there ever a whisper against your reputation when you were a
school-girl in Monterey and most intimate with the prisoner?”
“No, señor!” cried Rosita, paying no attention to the objection. “I
was a child, and could not even endure boys.”
“How many times have you seen the defendant since you left Monterey?”
Rosita cast up her eyes, then tapped the sticks of her fan successively
as she spoke.
“Once she came to see me just after—ah—WCTU died; then once just
before she left Mr. Peele; then that day the ‘Eye’ came out and said she
had done this so horrible thing. Ay, dios!”
“She has called upon you three times only, then, since you were children
in Monterey, since you have been the Rosita of the public; in the last
five years, in short?”
“Si, señor—yes, sir.”
“How long did she remain upon her first visit?”
“Oh, only a little while. I told her something that shocked her, for she
was always so proper.”
“What did you tell her?”
“Objected to,” cried the district attorney.
“Objection sustained,” snapped the judge.
“How long did she remain on her second visit?”
“About a half hour. I never knew what she came at all for. She just
floated in and out.” Rosita waved her arm with enchanting grace.
“Did she tell you why she came the third time?”
“Because she had no other place to go to. She said no hotel would take
her in.”
“She said that her old landlady had refused to admit her, did she not?”
“Si, señor.”
“Yes, yes!—and that in her terrible extremity she naturally turned to
the friend of her childhood?”
“Si!” and Rosita wept.
“But that she should not have gone to your house if there had been any
possibility of obtaining entrance to a hotel, or if she had not been
turned out of her father-in-law’s house?”
“Ay, yi! yes.”
“That is all. You can go.”
During the rest of that day and the two following days the experts for
the prosecution had the stand. The innumerable questions asked by the
district attorney, the technical details of the cross-examinations, the
constant interruptions, and the minutiæ of the evidence emptied the
court room after the first hour, and even Patience became bored, and
fell to thinking of other things, not forgetting to pity those twelve
puzzled little heads in the jury box.
The gist of the evidence was that there was enough morphine in Beverly
Peele’s stomach to kill two men.
                                   XV
“Our turn has come,” said Lansing to Patience on the morning after the
expert testimony was concluded. “We are confident of success now.”
“But the facts are hideous, and they have painted me black.”
“Mr. Bourke scraped off a good deal, and he’ll have the rest off before
he gets through. If he could only make that lying woman open her mouth!
You’ve borne yourself splendidly. Keep in good condition for the witness
stand. Are you frightened?”
“No,” she said, smiling at Bourke gratefully. “Not a bit.”
Simms opened the case for the defence.
He had a harsh strident voice. He gesticulated as if practising for a
prize fight, doubling back and springing forward. He cleared his throat
with vicious emphasis and rasped his heels upon the floor. His
statements were dry and matter-of-fact, his language bald; but he made a
direct vigorous and enthusiastic speech. The jury was informed that it
was there to save the life of one of the most brilliant and high-minded
young women of the age,—a woman utterly incapable of murder or of any
violent act, a woman with the mild and meditative mind of the student.
That it would be proved not only that she was far too clever to take
life by such clumsy methods, but that she had no object, as she had
gained her liberty, and the lover was a myth. The whole prosecution was
a malignant and personal prosecution of an innocent but too gifted woman
by an absurdly conceited family that had resented her superior
intelligence. This and much more of fact and fancy. But Patience, with
perverse feminity, liked him none the better, and would not even look at
him when he sat down.
Mr. Field was the first witness for the defence. Although compelled
under cross-examination to admit the prisoner’s interest in subtle
poisons, he managed to convey to the jury that it was merely the result
of an unusually brilliant and inquiring mind, a thought born of the
moment, of his suggestion. He gave the highest tribute to her
cleverness, her work on his paper, and to her reputation.
Latimer Burr was called next, and spoke with enthusiasm of her
“unfailing submission to a man of abominable and savage temper until
submission ceased to be a virtue.” He had never heard her utter any
threats to kill. Yes, it was true that he had engaged counsel for
defence. He believed in her thoroughly.
Miss Merrien, her landlady, and Mrs. Blair were put on the stand next
morning, and the good character they gave Patience was unshaken by the
nagging of the district attorney. Mr. Tarbox testified to her demeanour
of innocence during her imprisonment.
“But the defence is weak all the same,” whispered Patience to Lansing.
“Not a word can be said in rebuttal. Only Mr. Bourke’s eloquence can
save me.”
“Good character goes a long way,” replied Lansing. “You have no idea of
its weight with a jury, particularly with a jury of this kind.”
Patience was put on the witness stand next. The supreme effort to
overcome nervousness gave her an icy and repellent demeanour. Never had
she held her back as erect, her head as high. She kept her eyelids half
lowered, and spoke with scarcely any change of inflection. She told the
story of the night as she had told it in rehearsal many times. There had
been a quarrel an hour before she heard the deceased get up and go to
the lavatory. She offered to drop his morphine, and he replied with an
oath that she should never do another thing for him as long as he lived,
that he hoped she would leave the house by the first train next morning.
His sudden silence upon his return to his bed excited her apprehension,
and she called the family.
When Bourke sat down and the district attorney arose and confronted her
she shivered suddenly. Bourke’s rich strong voice and kind magnetic gaze
had given her courage, but this man with his eyes like grey ice, his
mechanical smile, and cold smooth voice conjured up a sudden awful
picture of the execution room at Sing Sing. Her insight appreciated with
exactitude the pitiless ambition of the man, knew that he stood pledged
to his future to send her to her death. He made her admit all the
damning facts of the evidence against her, the facts which stood out
like phosphorescent letters on a black wall, and to acknowledge her
abhorrence of the man that had been her husband. But all this had been
anticipated: at least he could not confuse her.
Again two days and a part of a third were monopolised by experts. These
two illustrious chemists testified, through the same bewildering mass of
detail as that employed by their equally illustrious predecessors, that
there was not enough morphine in Beverly Peele’s stomach to kill a cat.
There was a short interval, after the second expert had been permitted
to leave the stand, during which Bourke and Simms and Lansing conferred
together, preparatory to the summing up of the former. As Bourke was
about to rise, the district attorney stood up, cleared his throat, and
said: “One moment, please. Will Miss Honora Mairs kindly take the
stand?”
Bourke was on the alert in an instant. “The case for the prosecution has
closed,” he said.
“This is by special permission of the Court,” replied the district
attorney, coldly.
As Honora ascended the stand there was a deep murmur of admiration. She
looked like an angel, nothing less. She wore a white lawn frock, girt
with a blue sash; a large white leghorn lined with azure velvet, against
which the baby gold of her hair shone softly. Her great blue eyes had
the clear calm serenity of a young child. Patience drew her breath in a
series of short gasps. Bourke sat with clenched hands.
“We understand,” said the district attorney, severely, “that you did not
tell all you knew the other day, and that you have signified your
willingness to now tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. Is this true?”
Honora bowed her head with an expression of deep humility, as a child
might that had been justly rebuked.
“You had not slept at all upon that fatal night?”
“No.”
“Your door was open?”
“Yes.”
“You did see somebody enter the lavatory?”
“Yes.”
“Whom did you see?”
There was a moment’s breathless silence, during which Patience wondered
if a clock had ever ticked so loudly, or if the sun had ever shone with
so vicious a glare.
“Whom did you see?” repeated the district attorney.
“The prisoner.”
“What did she do?”
“She dropped some thirty or forty drops of morphine, I should say, then
half filled the glass with water, as usual.”
“You did not see the deceased go to the lavatory that night.”
“No.”
“Nor any one else until the defendant called you?”
“No.”
“That is all.”
Mr. Bourke sprang to his feet, his nostrils dilating, his fine face
quivering with unassumed scorn and indignation.
“You admit that you perjured yourself the other day?”
“I could not make up my mind to—”
“Never mind what you had not made up your mind to do. You admit that you
perjured yourself?”
“Yes,” gently.
“That in other words you lied.”
“Yes, sir.” Her voice was like the quiver of a violin.
“What proof are we to have that you are not lying now?”
“I am not lying. My conscience gave me no rest.”
“It will give you more, I suppose, if you will have succeeded in
swearing away the life of an innocent woman. Yes, yes!—Exactly how long
did Mrs. Peele remain in the lavatory?”
“I cannot remember. Five or ten minutes.”
“State the exact time.”
“Perhaps five.”
“And a few moments later when she ran into your room you pretended to be
asleep: Why did you assume sleep; what reason had you for lying at that
time?”
“I had dropped off.”
“You had been sufficiently wide awake five minutes before to note
precisely all these other things, and then had promptly fallen into a
sound sleep. Is that your usual habit?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Did you speak to the prisoner when she came into the lavatory?”
“No.”
“Were not you in the habit of holding a conversation with her upon such
occasions?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Why did you not address her on that night?”
“I was very sleepy, and had nothing in particular to say.”
“But you were not too sleepy to note carefully all the details in the
evidence you have just given. You can go,—and to the devil,” he
muttered. He thrust his hands into his pockets and wheeled about,
looking at Patience with such intensity of gaze that she moved suddenly
forward. Her face was pale, but her eyes blazed with rage. Bourke
glanced at the clock.
“It is twenty minutes to one,” he said. “I would ask your honour to
adjourn until two. I must have time to digest this new testimony. Its
remarkable glibness prevented me from giving it the running deliberation
that it demanded.”
The judge sulkily dismissed the court. As Patience passed out of the
room with Tarbox she heard the word “angel” more than once, and knew
that it did not refer to her.
Patience was not conscious of fear as she ate her luncheon. Her heart
was black with rage. “I’d willingly murder her,” she thought, “and my
conscience wouldn’t trouble me the least little bit.”
                                  XVI
Immediately after recess Mr. Bourke began his summing up. He commenced
quietly, shaking the loose cloth of the table in an absent manner. His
language was colloquial as he spoke to the jury of its grave
responsibilities, and complimented it upon the “unusual intelligence
which it had so far made evident.” He passed naturally to the subject in
hand, and dwelt eloquently upon the character of the defendant, of her
lonely pathetic youth, her high ideals, her remarkable intelligence, her
ignorance of the world which had led her to fall in love with the first
handsome and attractive man that had addressed her.
His voice rose to tragic pitch as he dwelt upon the terrible awakening
of such a woman, bound for life to such a man,—a sensual, ill-tempered,
selfish brute, who was a disgrace to the nineteenth century.
He depicted two years of uncomplaining wifely devotion (until Patience
became lost in admiration of the defendant), the husband’s frantic rages
about nothing, his unrecognition of her superiority, his ignorant
determination to make her his slave—his plaything—she, a woman whom
such men as James E. Field and Gardiner Peele delighted to honour.
Then he dropped again into pathos (which never for a moment degenerated
into bathos) and described the desolate life of such a woman in an empty
frivolous brainless society (faint murmur and indignant rustle in the
gallery), a society of idle people with neither soul nor intelligence,
but who squandered the money wrested from the People, the great People,
of whom the Gentlemen of the Jury were twelve worthy and doubtless long
suffering members.
It was not until he had emphasised and recapitulated with every resource
of his splendid vocabulary, every modulation of his glorious voice, by
controlled and telling gesture, by sudden tremendous bursts of
indignation, the married life of the prisoner, that he passed to the day
and night of the tragedy. He began with the morning, and dwelt upon
every detail of the day. Before he reached midnight he had Beverly Peele
in a frame of mind for both suicide and murder. He sent him to bed with
black skin and white flecked nose and chaos in his heart. With a
magnificent burst of scorn he quoted his shameful language when his wife
had offered to get him the morphine, the oaths he had used to a “refined
and elegant and patient woman.” Then he took him to the lavatory, showed
him jerking the stopper from the morphine bottle, and recklessly pouring
a fourth of its contents into a glass. “He knew that he had to die
anyhow, and he could at least die happy in a hideous revenge.” In brief
and vivid phrase he cited several similar instances in legal history.
Then he returned to Peele Manor and denounced the jealous woman who for
five years had nursed fury in her heart, and who, on the witness stand,
here, Gentlemen of the Jury, conceived, at the unfortunate suggestion of
the speaker, the frightful revenge upon a woman who had treated her with
unvarying kindness. She did not speak at once, partly because her lying
tale needed rehearsing, partly because she believed that the case for
the prosecution would win without her. But when she saw that the case
for the prosecution was wholly lost she arrayed herself like an angel,
that she might the better impose upon the unworldly Gentlemen of the
Jury, and swore away a woman’s life.
The several assertions on the defendant’s part that she felt disposition
to murder he tore to rags and flung in the face of the jury. Had not
every high tempered person—could not the Gentlemen of the Jury recall
having exclaimed in bitter moments: “I wish you were dead! I could kill
you!” With deep regret and remorse he would confess that he had used
similar expressions many times.
Then with consummate skill he dilated upon the impossibility of so
clever a woman as the defendant doing aught so stupid as to murder in
the manner of the accusation. When there was nothing left to say on this
subject he expatiated upon the lack of motive with a technical and
personal brilliancy which made even the cross-grained old judge lean
forward with a cynical smile.
The interviews, even the final ones, with the mysterious stranger, he
treated with contempt, although the contempt was sufficiently long drawn
out to impress the jury with every most insignificant detail. It, was
the mere longing for companionship of a lonely woman: that was the
beginning and the end of it. The lover, the intention of either to
marry, he disposed of with a vehemence which made Simms twist about
suddenly and look at Lansing; but the young man was regarding his chief
with rapt admiration.
Not so much as the scraping of a boot heel was heard in the court room.
Patience glanced at the district attorney. His face was set and sullen.
After every possible point had been considered Bourke concluded with an
appeal so stirring, so ringing, so thrilling that every person in the
court room except the district attorney sat forward and held his breath.
No such burst of passion had ever been heard in that room before.
Patience covered her face with her hands. Her heart beat suffocatingly.
The blood pounded in her ears; but not one note of that wonderful voice,
not one phrase of fire, escaped her.
Is there any possible condition in which a man can appear to such
supreme advantage as when pleading for the life of a fellow being, more
particularly of a young and beautiful woman? How paltry all the
time-worn rescues of woman from sinking ship and runaway horse and
burning house. A great criminal lawyer standing before the jury box with
a life in his hand has the unique opportunity to display all the best
gifts ever bestowed upon man: genius, brain, passion, heart, soul,
eloquence, a figure instinct with grace and virility, a face blazing
with determination to snatch a man or woman from the most awful of
dooms.
And all in two short hours.
If those in the court room for whom the case had no personal interest
were at Bourke’s feet, hanging upon his words, adoring him for the
moment, what were the feelings of the woman for whom he was making so
desperate and manly a fight? She forgot her danger, forgot everything
but the man, the reckless joy of loving, of being swept out of her calm
orbit at last. Her analytical brain was dulled, her arms ached, her
heart shook her body.
As Bourke made a few supplementary remarks calculated to take the wind
out of the district attorney’s sails,—references to the young man’s
ambition, his youthful eagerness to become famous, what the winning of
such a great case would mean to him, and to his remarkable cleverness
and skill with a jury,—Patience heard Simms say to Lansing: “My God!
Bourke has surpassed even himself. Even he never got as high as that
before.”
“He’s the greatest man in the country, God bless him!” said Lansing.
As Bourke finally dropped upon his chair he turned to Patience. Their
eyes met and lingered; and in that moment each passed into the other’s
keeping.
                                  XVII
Sturges lost no time taking his stand before the jury box. It was the
hour of his life, but he was not nervous. His long thin figure leaning
toward the box as he rested his finger tips on the table, showed as fine
a repose of nerve as of brain. His clear-cut face with the cruel mouth
and pleasant smile was calm and unclouded.
He began by defending himself against Mr. Bourke’s remarks, and asserted
with convincing emphasis that when he had taken the oath of office he
had left his personal ambition behind him with his personal interests,
and had given himself body and soul and brain to the People of
Westchester County. Then he made an equally earnest statement of the
grave responsibilities of a district attorney, his solemn duty to the
People, the necessity to smother all promptings of humanity that he
might do what was best for the People—“The greatest good of the
greatest number.”
Then he painted Patience as black as Bourke had enamelled her white.
With masterly ingenuity he made each juror feel what an awful being a
bad woman was, an unloving undutiful wife; what a curse each man of them
would writhe under had Fate played him as scurvy a trick as it had
played poor Beverly Peele; that no unloved husband’s life would be safe
were not such women exploited and punished, that if the Gentlemen of the
Jury were weak enough to consider her sex they might be imperilling the
lives of countless thousands. For the matter of that, he reiterated,
crime had no sex.
He took up each detail of the story, and in the light of his
interpretation Patience was the modern Lucretia Borgia and Beverly Peele
an injured, peaceable, affectionate husband, who had been sacrificed by
an abandoned woman to whom he had given his honoured name, his fortune,
and his love.
He scarcely raised his voice. There was no passion in his utterance; but
he manufactured a mosaic, bit by bit, each fragment fitting so exactly
that the design was without crevice or crack. He demonstrated
mathematically that the tardy evidence of Miss Mairs had been
superfluous; that the chain of circumstantial evidence was symmetrical
and complete, and that no possible motive beyond duty to her conscience
could be attributed to her. With devilish adroitness, without a direct
phrase, he managed to filter into those twelve small brains the secret
of the inspired eloquence of the eminent counsel for the defence,—in
behalf of his young and beautiful client.
While he was talking, the skeleton trees beyond the windows grew dim of
outline, the mass of colour in the gallery faded. An official came out
of the library behind the court room and lit the tall gas lamps on
either side of the bench. The judge looked like a bas-relief in pink and
silver against the dark panelling of the background. The rest of the
room was in shadow. The light of the near jet fell full upon Sturges’
stern face.
Patience’s life from “its fiendish childhood” was rehearsed with such
consecutive logic that crime at some point of such a woman’s career was
inevitable. The only wonder was that it had not been committed sooner.
The threats, he demonstrated, whether uttered in moments of passion or
not, were the significant output of a brooding mind. The “cruel letter
to a dying man” was read with slow and indignant emphasis. Then the
events of the fatal day and night, the quarrels, the prisoner’s fury at
being denied a divorce, the deceased’s threat to live twenty years to
spite her, her carefully rehearsed and absurd story that her husband had
dropped the morphine himself,—something he knew himself physically
incapable of doing,—the equal absurdity of his suicide when a greater
revenge lay in his hands, her brutal indifference while he lay dying,
were deliberately gone over with passionless and insidious effect. The
quiet half-lit room was oddly in keeping with the deadly methods of the
man.
When he had made the most of her flight on the morning of the “Eye”
story, he paused a moment, during which the rising wind could be heard
in the trees. Within, there was no sound. No one seemed breathing.
Bourke and Patience were in deep shadow. With an instinct of protection
he clasped his hand suddenly about hers.
Sturges resumed, with lowered and vibrating voice:
“And—where—Gentlemen of the Jury,—was—this—woman—arrested?——In
the house of a harlot!” He paused another half moment. “In the house of
her oldest friend, La Rosita, one of the most abandoned women in
America.”
Bourke’s hand twitched spasmodically. Simms twisted his neck, and shot
at Lansing an uneasy glance. Patience shuddered. For the moment she
forgot Bourke. She felt as if a cobra were folding her about,—very
slowly, and gently, and inexorably.
When Sturges sat down the jury was told to rise. The judge stood under
one of the lamps and read them his charge. He explained that unless they
could find the prisoner guilty of murder in the first degree—of
deliberate premeditated murder—they must acquit her. As the final
quarrel had taken place an hour before the killing it was obviously
impossible that she could have dropped the morphine in a moment of
excitement; and a verdict of self-defence would be equally absurd. He
also charged them that they were to consider the law in the case and
nothing but the law,—that human sympathy must have no place in their
verdict.
Bourke was too able a lawyer not to have the last word. As the judge sat
down, he arose with several sheets of manuscript, and for twenty minutes
asked the judge to charge the jury so and so, practically recapitulating
all the strong points of the defence. The judge answered mechanically,
“I so charge,” and at last the patient jury was conducted out of the
court room and locked up. Bourke was surrounded at once.
As Tarbox, with Patience on his arm, left the court house and its crowd
behind him, he exclaimed, “By God, that was a great speech of Bourke’s!
There never has been a summing up like that in my time before, not even
by him. But he’s the smartest man in Westchester County! Hanged if I
don’t think he’s the smartest man in the State of New York. He’ll be in
the United States Senate yet.”
                                 XVIII
After dinner Patience went back to the court room to remain until ten
o’clock, at which time the jury, if it had not come to a decision, would
be locked up for the night. She sat surrounded by her counsel and the
lawyers that had taken so deep an interest in the case. Bourke sat very
close to her, and once or twice as she met his eyes she forgot the
terrible moment to come. Few people were in the court house. No one
expected a verdict that night.
It was exactly at half-past nine that the jury filed solemnly in.
Patience’s knees jerked suddenly upward. She lost her breath for a
moment. Bourke leaned over her and took her hand, regardless of the
curious people surrounding them.
“Be brave. Be brave,” he said hurriedly. “Now is the time for all your
pride and disdain.”
When she was ordered to stand up and face the jury, she did so with an
air so collected and so haughty that even Simms murmured: “By Jove, she
is a thoroughbred.”
There was a moment of horrible and vibrating silence, during which
Patience’s brain reiterated hilariously: “Twelve little Jurymen all in a
row. Twelve little heads all in a row.” Then the foreman was asked for
the verdict. He cleared his throat, and without moving a muscle of his
face, remarked,—
“Guilty.”
The district attorney sat down suddenly and hid his face with a
convulsive hand. Patience resumed her seat with a mien as stolid as that
of the twelve jurors. Bourke’s face blanched, but he sprang to his feet
and demanded that the jury be polled. Each solemn “Yes,” twelve and
unhesitating, sounded like a knell. Then Bourke demanded a Stay, which
was granted by the impassive judge, and Patience was led through the
silent crowd from the court room to her cell. Tarbox escorted her
mutely, his face turned away. At the door of her cell he attempted to
speak, but gave it up and retreated hastily.
Patience threw off her hat and sat down on the edge of the bed. The
verdict, she knew now, had not been a surprise. But she thought little
of the verdict. She was waiting for something else. It came in a moment.
She heard a quick impatient step on the ground below, then a rapid
ascent of stair, a word or two at the door, Tarbox’s retreating step.
Bourke was in the cell. His face was white, but that of Patience as she
rose and confronted him was not.
“I don’t care!” she said. “I don’t care! I believe I am happier than any
woman alive.”
The red sprang to his face. He took her outstretched hands and held them
to lips and eyes for a moment, then caught her in his arms and kissed
her until the rest of the world lay dull, and all life was in that quiet
cell.
                                  XIX
A year later they took her to Sing Sing. The General Term had refused
her a new trial, the Court of Appeals had sustained the lower court.
Bourke had won nothing but additional glory.
He did not go with her to Sing Sing. She saw him alone for an hour
before Tarbox came to take her away. Her composure was greater than his.
He was torn with horror and defeat, and his surpassing love for the
woman. Not that he had given up hope by any means, nor the fight; but he
knew the fearful odds, and he cursed the law which he had outwitted and
played with so often and so brilliantly.
“I wish we were back in the middle ages,” he said savagely, “when a man
took his rights and regulated justice by brute force. We are not half
men now that we are under the yoke of a thing that operates blindly, and
strikes by chance where it should strike, in nine cases out of ten. Good
God! Good God! it seems incredible that I can let you go, that I shall
stand by and see Tarbox lead you away. Think of the combined intellect
of the world and the centuries having done no more for man than that. I
must stand aside and see you go to a hideous cell in the Death House—O
my God!”
He had awakened the woman down to the depths; to-day he called to life
the maternal instinct in her. She put her arms about him with the
passionate strength of one who would transmit courage and hope through
physical pressure.
“Listen,” she said; “I don’t mind one cell more than another—and I
know, I know, that you will save me. I feel it. I am not going to die.
You are a man of genius. Everybody says that—everybody—I know that you
will have an inspiration at the last minute. And I have been happy,
happy, happy! Don’t forget that—not ever. I would go through twenty
times what I have suffered in all my life for this past year. Don’t you
think I can live on that for a month or two? Why, I can feel your touch,
the pressure of your arms for hours after you leave me. I shall be with
you every minute—”
He threw back his head, shaking it with a brief violent motion
characteristic of him.
“Very well,” he said, “very well; it is not for me to be weak when you
are strong. Perhaps it is because the prize is so great that the fight
is so long and desperate. Oh, you wonderful woman!
“Tell me,” he said after a moment, “that it has all been as perfect to
you as to me. I want to hear you say that, but I know it, I know it.”
“Oh,—I—I—”
                 *        *        *        *        *
Tarbox came and took her away. He looked as if he had lost home and
friends and fortune, and did not speak from White Plains to Sing Sing.
The details of the trip interested her less than such details are
supposed to interest the condemned that look their last on sky and land;
her head ached, and the glare of the Hudson blinded her; but as the
train neared Sing Sing she opened her eyes suddenly, then sat forward
with a note of admiration.
The river was covered with a dense rosy mist which half obscured the
opposite shore, giving it the effect of an irregular group of islands.
Above was a calm lake of yellow fire surrounded by heavy billows of
boiling gold; beyond, storm clouds, growing larger and darker.
As they drove, a few moments later, to the prison, the great grey
battlemented pile was swimming in the same rosy glow. Patience murmured
satirically:
        “‘The splendour falls on castle walls.’”
Tarbox looked at her in amazement. “Oh,” he said, “how do you manage
it?”
“All hope is not gone,” she replied; “there is still the governor.” But
she knew how slender that hope was. The governor was on the eve of
re-election; public feeling was multiplied against her; the “Eye” was
clamouring for her life, and strutting like a turkey cock; the “Eye” and
Tammany Hall were one; the governor was the creature of Tammany Hall.
The warden was in his office. He greeted her with elaborate politeness,
albeit puffed with alcohol and pride. She handed him what valuables she
had not presented to Tarbox, and answered his questions in a manner not
calculated to placate his Irish dignity. Then she turned to say good-bye
to Tarbox, but he had disappeared. The head-keeper, a big kindly man,
who pressed her arm in a paternal manner, led her down long echoing
corridors, past rows and tiers of cells, and yards full of Things in
striped garments, and talked to her in the manner one adopts to a
frightened child, until she said:—
“I am not going to have hysterics; nor am I at all sure that I am to be
executed—but please don’t imagine that I don’t appreciate your
kindness.”
“Well, I like that,” he said. “To tell the truth the prospect of having
a woman here has half scared me out of my wits. But if you won’t take
on, I’ll do everything I can to make you comfortable. We’ve put a woman
