an elderly "dude," and thus far more ridiculous than the younger
specimens of this class.

Perhaps it is well for our self-conceit that we do not see ourselves
as others see us. Hugh Parkinson, when he surveyed himself in the
mirror, decided that he was handsome and stylish-looking. He felt
that it was time he married. His salary was a liberal one--fifty
dollars per week--and he had a snug sum in various savings banks,
representing the savings of the last ten years.

"I'm a good catch!" he said to himself, complacently; "I've a right
to expect considerable in a wife. Egad! I must be getting married
while I am still a young man."

He had been a young man for a good many years, and so entitled to
call himself such.

Hugh Parkinson was fastidious, however, and he had never met the
one he wanted to marry till he saw Rose Beaufort. Rose was about
half his age, and her fresh beauty touched the heart--such as he
had--of the old young man.

"She has no fortune, but what does that matter?" he said to himself,
magnanimously. "I have enough for both. When she goes with me to the
theatre she will excite the admiration of all, and all the young men
in society will envy me. Egad! I must marry her."

Rose, however, had as yet shown no signs of admiring Mr. Parkinson.
Indeed, the superintendent had good reason to doubt whether she even
esteemed him. He saw, however, that she was poor. Marriage with him
would bring her comfort, and even a moderate degree of luxury; upon
this he depended for a favorable issue to his suit. As to her being
poor, that was evident enough. To be sure, she was well dressed,
but no one who is in good circumstances takes vests to make at
thirty-five cents apiece. Besides, he knew where she lived, for the
vest-makers were obliged to leave their addresses with their names;
and he had passed through Bleecker street, and seen for himself the
shabby tenement-house in which Rose lived.

"I wish she might become poorer still," said Mr. Parkinson to
himself; "then I would have a chance to step in as her good angel
and relieve her from suffering. She couldn't help being drawn to me."

When Rose called and desired pay for the two vests which she had
completed, Mr. Parkinson was pleased; it showed that she was
becoming harder pressed by poverty.

"Daniells," he said to the examining clerk, "when Miss Beaufort
calls with her package of vests I want you to object to the quality
of her work."

"But, Mr. Parkinson, her work is always well done," objected
Daniells.

"Oh, well, you can always find faults. Just say that she must see me
before you feel authorized to pay her."

"What's your game, Mr. Parkinson?" asked Daniells.

Mr. Parkinson winked significantly.

"The fact is, Daniells," he said, "I want an opportunity to
ingratiate myself with the fair Rose. I will take her part, pay her
the money as a favor, and--you comprehend?"

"Yes, I see. The fact is, Rose is pretty, and if I were not a
married man I would try to obtain a smile from her myself."

"Just do as I tell you, there's a good fellow, and you won't lose by
it."

When Rose had obtained by good fortune the powerful friendship
of the rich Miss Wilmot, she, of course, decided to give up
vest-making. She had some time left, but she felt that it would be
necessary for her to keep up her practice at home, if she aspired
to become a successful piano-teacher. However, she would finish the
vests she had in hand, and let those be the last.

When the vests were finished she took them round to Mr. Walton's
establishment.

The vigilant Daniells did not fail to note her appearance, and
prepared to serve the interests of his superior in the way which had
been arranged between them.

"So you've finished the vests?" he said, carelessly. "Let me look at
them."

Rose regarded this as a mere formality, knowing that they had been
well made, and never before having had her work objected to.

What was her surprise, therefore, when Daniells went over them one
by one, frowning and shaking his head, disapprovingly.

"Really," he said, "these vests are hardly satisfactory."

"What is amiss with them?" asked Rose, in genuine surprise.

"I can't go into particulars," said Daniells, who would have found
it hard to do so, by the way; "I can only say that they are not as
well made as we expect."

"They are as well made as usual," said Rose, flushing indignantly.
"I cannot understand why you object to them, when all the work I've
done before has passed without objection."

"All I can say, Miss Beaufort, is that I do not feel authorized to
pay you for them. Mr. Parkinson, however, is my superior. You can
refer the matter to him."

"I should like to do so, sir," said Rose, with cold dignity.

"I will accompany you."

The two passed on to the superintendent's desk, and Daniells
explained the matter to his superior.

"I will look over the work myself," said Parkinson. "You may go
back, Mr. Daniells. I will settle the matter."

Rose stood quiet, while the superintendent examined the vests.

"Really, Miss Beaufort," said Hugh, with his fascinating smile, "I
think Mr. Daniells has done you injustice. To my eye, the vests are
very neatly made."

"Thank you, sir," said Rose, gratefully. "I am sure they are as well
made as any I have brought here."

"The fact is," said Parkinson, confidentially, "Daniells is rather
fussy--I might say cranky--I have had more than once to reverse his
decision. You shall certainly be paid promptly, as usual."

"Thank you, sir."

Rose had never admired the superintendent, but he seemed to her
now a just and agreeable man. The money was not now of so much
importance to her, but she strongly objected to being unjustly
treated, and being deprived of the money which she had fairly earned.

Mr. Parkinson himself paid over to Rose the money due for the six
vests.

"Miss Beaufort," he said, "I hope you won't think we men of business
are all hard and disposed to take advantage of the poor. Now, in
your case, I assure you that I feel very kindly toward you."

"Thank you, sir," said Rose, considerably surprised.

Mr. Parkinson's vanity led him to think that she was regarding him
with a look of interest, but he misinterpreted her. She looked upon
him as old enough to be her father, and not a suspicion had ever
entered her mind that he thought of her as a possible wife.

"If you will permit me," said the superintendent, "I am about to go
out to lunch, and will communicate to you a plan I have for your
advantage. It will be better not to take any new work now."

"I did not intend to," said Rose.

Mr. Parkinson looked a little surprised.

They passed through the store together, and out into Broadway. Rose
waited for Mr. Parkinson to say what he appeared to have in his mind.

"I think, Miss Beaufort," he said, as they emerged into the street,
"you could do better than make vests at thirty-five cents each."

"I think so, too," answered Rose. "I wonder what he means?" she
thought.

"Such a beautiful girl as you are----"

"Sir!" exclaimed Rose, haughtily.

"No offense, my dear. Quite the contrary, I assure you. I have had
my eye upon you for some time, and I admire you exceedingly. You are
poor, but I shall overlook that. My dear girl, I am very well off,
as you may suppose, and I offer to make you Mrs. Parkinson."

"Good-evening, sir," said Rose, coldly. "I don't wish to continue
the conversation."

"Don't be foolish, my dear girl. It is a fine chance for a poor
vest-maker to marry a man in my position."

Rose did not deign to answer, but tried to escape. He attempted to
seize her by the arm, when his hat was violently knocked over his
eyes, and he came near measuring his length on the sidewalk.




                           CHAPTER XXII.

                      THE ROMANCE OF A ROSE.


Mr. Parkinson adjusted his hat, and darted a glance of indignation
at a fine-looking young man who had come to the rescue of Rose
Beaufort.

"This is an outrage, sir," he said, angrily.

Clinton Randall paid no attention to the discomfited Parkinson, but
asked Rose:

"Has this man annoyed you?"

"He forced his attentions upon me," answered Rose.

"If he has insulted you, I will take care that he is punished."

"Don't meddle with what is none of your business," said Parkinson,
furiously. "I have a good mind to horsewhip you."

"Make the attempt whenever you please, sir," said Randall,
significantly. "If ever I find you annoying this young lady again, I
shall probably give you a taste of the same medicine."

"Annoying?" sneered Parkinson. "I offered to make her my wife, if
you call that annoyance. Let me tell you that when a gentleman in
my position offers to marry a vest-maker she has reason to feel
complimented."

"She evidently does not," said Randall, not without sarcasm.
"Whether she is a vest-maker or not, she is evidently a young lady
and is entitled to be treated as such."

"She will be sorry for having made such a fuss," said Parkinson,
spitefully. "Miss Beaufort," he continued, turning to Rose, "you
need not trouble yourself to come to the store again for work, as I
shall decline to give you any. You may regret having treated me with
such scant courtesy."

"I had no intention of asking for more work," said Rose, coldly.

"Perhaps you have come into a fortune," sneered Parkinson.

"Enough of this!" said Randall, sternly. "This young lady has no
favors to ask of you. You had better go back to your master and
conduct yourself hereafter in a more becoming manner, or you may
repent it."

Here was a fresh outrage for poor Parkinson. In his own eyes he
was a man of very great importance, and to be told by this young
man, before a common vest-maker, to go back to his master, was very
humiliating. He was trying to think of some scathing retort, when
Randall, with a bow, offered his arm to Rose, and they walked away
together.

"I wonder whether she really doesn't care for any more work,"
thought Parkinson, "or is it only pretense? I dare say she will,
after a while, be coming round again for vests to make. If she does,
I shall have her in my power."

And the superintendent walked slowly back to the store, chafing
inwardly at his ill-success.

"I hope you won't allow yourself to think of this disagreeable
occurrence," said Clinton Randall, "or of this unmannerly cur."

"No, sir, thanks to your kindness, I shall have no occasion."

"He seemed spiteful. I hope it is not in his power to annoy you."

He said this, thinking that Rose might be dependent upon Parkinson
for work.

"Last week he might have done so," answered Rose. "I was engaged in
making vests for the store in which he is employed, and he might
have refused me work. Now, fortunately, thanks to a kind lady, I
have no further occasion to apply to him."

"I am heartily glad to hear it. Any connection with such a cur must
be disagreeable. Has he ever annoyed you before?"

"Never; and I was much surprised to-day when he followed me from the
store and pressed his attentions upon me."

"He is old enough to be your father--the old fool!" said Randall,
resentfully.

It seemed to him profanation that such a man should have thought of
appropriating the fresh beauty of the charming girl at his side.

"He thought I ought to regard myself honored by his proposal,"
said Rose, smiling, as she thought of the unromantic figure of her
elderly lover.

"He has found out by this time that you hold a different opinion.
If he should ever persecute you again, I hope I may be at hand to
rescue you once more."

"I am not likely to meet him, and have no further occasion to make
vests for a living. If you will kindly stop the next up-town car, I
will not longer detain you."

"Certainly," answered Randall; and as a car was just at hand, he
complied with her request.

He stood on the sidewalk, following, with his glances, the Broadway
car into which he had helped Rose.

"I wish I dare follow her, and find out who she is," said Randall
to himself; "but she might misinterpret my motive and class me with
that elderly reprobate with whom I was compelled to interfere. What
a charming girl she is! I never saw a sweeter expression, or a more
beautiful complexion."

He was in a day-dream, from which he was presently roused.

"What are you staring at, Randall?" asked a young man of about his
own age, slapping him on the shoulder. "You seem star-gazing."

"So I am."

"Star-gazing at midday?"

"It is a human star, Tudor. In short, it is a beautiful girl, whom I
have just helped into a car."

"Who is she?"

"I don't know, I'm sure."

"An unknown divinity, eh? Tell me about it, for there is evidently a
story under all this."

"A very short one. I found an elderly scamp annoying her, and
knocked his hat over his eyes."

"And, after having gallantly rescued her, you helped her into a car?"

"Exactly."

"And that is the whole of it?"

"I am afraid so."

"You don't mean to say you are struck at last, Randall--you who have
so long been the despair of manoeuvering mammas? Come, that would be
news, indeed!"

"I am not at all sure but I am. Tudor, I will say one thing, that I
never saw a sweeter face in all my wanderings."

"That's saying a good deal, for you have been all over the world.
And you don't know the young lady's name?"

"Haven't the slightest clew to it."

"Is she rich or poor, a stylish city lady or a rustic beauty?"

"I fancy she is not rich," said Randall, who, for some reason,
did not care to mention that she had been a vest-maker. To him it
mattered little, but his friend Tudor might be more fastidious, and
he was not willing to give him any chance to look down upon Rose.

"Couldn't you manage to ask her name?"

Randall shook his head.

"I tried to think of a pretext, but could not," he answered.

"You may meet her again."

"I hope to do so."

"And if you do?"

Randall smiled.

"Considering that it is not over ten minutes since I first set
eyes upon her, it is, perhaps, a little premature to consider that
question. I shall certainly try to meet her again."

The two young men sauntered up-town, and the conversation fell upon
other themes, but Clinton Randall seemed unusually thoughtful. Do
what he might, he could not help recurring again and again to the
fair face which he had seen for the first time that morning.

When Rose was at home again the matter seemed no longer serious to
her. Whenever she thought of Mr. Parkinson and his suit she felt
inclined to laugh.

"Addie," she said, "I have had a proposal this morning."

"A proposal!" repeated her sister, in surprise.

"Yes, an offer of marriage."

"You are not in earnest?"

"Indeed I am! I am not sure but I shall give you a brother-in-law."

"I wasn't aware that you knew any eligible young man."

"He isn't a young man. Let me describe him to you. His name is
Parkinson; he is somewhere between forty and fifty; he is partially
bald, and--I am not quite sure that he is not bow-legged."

"And you love him?" queried Adeline, mischievously. "If so, I
give my consent, for though I had hoped for a better-looking
brother-in-law, I am not willing that your young affections should
be blighted."

"Nonsense, Addie," returned Rose, half-vexed.

"Tell me all about it."

Rose did so, and her sister listened with fixed interest.

"And this young man who rescued you, and knocked your adorer's hat
over his eyes. I suppose he was a commonplace young man, red-haired
and freckled, perhaps?"

"Indeed he was not," said Rose, indignantly.

"Then he was handsome?"

"Yes, I think that he would be considered so."

"Take care you don't dream of him. It would be very
romantic--wouldn't it?--if you should marry him, as generally
happens in romances."

"Don't be a goose, Addie!" said Rose; but she did not seem annoyed.
Secretly, she thought Clinton Randall the most attractive young
man she had ever met, and wondered if fate would ever throw them
together again.




                          CHAPTER XXIII.

               ON THE BORDERS OF THE LAKE OF GENEVA.


It is time to look after our hero in his European wanderings.

He had been travelling hither and thither with his guardian, who
appeared to have no definite aim except to enjoy himself. Whether
he succeeded in doing this was by no means certain. On the whole,
he and Ben got along very well together. He did not undertake to
control his young secretary, but left him very much to his own
devices. There were times when he seemed irritable, but it generally
happened when he had been losing money at the gaming-table, for
he was fond of play, not so much because he was fascinated by it
as because it served as a distraction in lieu of more serious
pursuits. On the whole, he did not lose much, for he was cool and
self-possessed.

One thing was unsatisfactory to Ben--he had little or nothing to do.
He was private secretary in name, but what use Major Grafton had for
a private secretary Ben could not divine.

Why Ben need have concerned himself, as long as he received his
salary, may excite the wonder of some of my readers, but I think
most people like to feel that they are doing something useful.

Ben, however, found a use for part of his time. In his travels
through France, Switzerland, and Italy, he had oftentimes found
himself, when alone, at a loss on account of a want of knowledge of
the French language.

"Why should I not learn it?" he asked himself.

He procured some elementary French books, including a grammar,
dictionary, and tourist's guide, and set himself to the task with
his usual energy. Having little else to do, he made remarkable
progress, and found his studies a source of great interest.

"What are you doing there, Philip?" asked Major Grafton, one
afternoon.

"I am trying to obtain some knowledge of French. I suppose you have
no objection?"

"Not the least in the world. Do you want a teacher?"

"No, sir; I think I can get along by myself."

Major Grafton was rather glad that Ben had found some way of passing
his time. He did not want the boy to become homesick, for his
presence was important to him for reasons that we are acquainted
with.

Ben supplemented his lessons by going into shops, pricing articles,
and attempting to hold a conversation with the clerks. This was a
practical way of learning the language, which he found of great use.

Again they found themselves in Geneva, which Ben thought, on the
whole, a pleasant place of residence. Here, too, he could make
abundant use of his new acquisition, and did not fail to avail
himself of his opportunity. So he enjoyed his stay in the charming
Swiss city until one day he made an astounding discovery.

The most interesting walk in Geneva is along the borders of the
lake. Near it are placed seats on which the visitor may sit and
survey the unequalled view.

Ben had seated himself one day, with a French book in his hand,
which he was studying, when he observed a couple of ladies seat
themselves near him. He would have given them no further thought if
by chance the name of Major Grafton, spoken by one of them, had not
reached his ears.

"I see that Major Grafton is here," said one. "You know we met him
at Florence."

"Yes, the one who had the sick boy with him."

"The same."

"It was his son, was it not?"

"I thought so at the time, but I have since learned that I was
mistaken. He was the boy's guardian."

"The boy died, did he not?"

"Yes, and it must have been a serious calamity to him."

"You mean that he was very much attached to the boy?"

"No, I don't mean that. On the contrary, he appeared to care very
little for him. It was the pecuniary loss I was thinking of."

"Explain yourself."

"You must know, then, that the boy was heir to a large fortune, the
income of which, during his minority, was payable to Major Grafton
for his benefit. No doubt the guardian made a good thing out of it.
He probably made it pay both the boy's expenses and his own."

"Then, on the boy's death, he would lose this income?"

"Precisely."

"It is strange," said the younger lady; "but he still has a boy with
him."

"He has?" inquired the other, in surprise.

"The name he calls him is Philip."

"That was the name of the boy who died."

"Are you sure that he died? Are you sure that this is not the same
boy?"

"Positive."

"It is very singular. A strange idea has occurred to me."

"What is it?"

"What if he is passing off this boy for the first, in order to
retain the liberal income which he received as guardian?"

"But that would be fraudulent."

"That is true; but I think Major Grafton would be capable of it. I
hear from my brother that he gambles, and a gambler is not apt to be
overburdened with principle."

"If this is so, he ought to be exposed. To whom would the boy's
fortune go, if it were known that he was dead?"

"To three cousins, who, I understand, are living in poverty in New
York. There are two young girls and a brother, named Beaufort.
They were cut off by the grandfather, from whom the fortune was
inherited. For what reason I am not aware. However, the will
stipulated that if the boy should die, the fortune should go to
these children."

"Then they ought to be enjoying it now?"

"Exactly. If all is true that I suspect, they are being kept out of
it by a conspiracy."

"Who is the boy that Major Grafton has with him now?"

"I don't know. Possibly it is a relative of his own. He calls him
Philip to deceive the public, if all is as I suspect."

"Don't you think we ought to do something in the matter, Clara?"

"I never meddle with matters that don't concern me."

"Not even to right such a wrong as this?"

"No; I suppose matters will come right after awhile. The deception
will be discovered, you may depend upon it."

"If I knew the boy I would speak to him about it."

"You would have your labor for your pains. The boy is probably in
the conspiracy. I think he is a nephew of Major Grafton. If anything
were said to him, he would no doubt put the major on his guard, and
that would be the end of it. My dear, we shall do much better not to
interfere in the matter at all."

The younger lady looked dissatisfied, but did not reply.

The feelings with which Ben heard this revelation may be imagined.
He never for a moment doubted the truth of the story. It made clear
to him what had seemed singular hitherto. He had never been able
to understand why Major Grafton should pick him up, and without
any inquiry into his capacity offer him an engagement as private
secretary. He had found that the office was merely nominal, and that
there were no duties to speak of connected with it. Major Grafton
had shown no particular interest in him, and evidently cared nothing
for him, save as he served his purpose. But if his presence enabled
Grafton to remain in possession of a large income, there was no need
to inquire further. Ben saw that he was made an important agent in a
wicked conspiracy to divert a large fortune from its lawful owners.

What ought he to do?




                           CHAPTER XXIV.

                        THE MAISON DE FOUS.


This question of what he ought to do disturbed Ben not a little.
As an honorable boy he did not wish to benefit any longer than was
absolutely necessary by a deception which involved injustice and
fraud. He was living very comfortably, it is true, and his allowance
was a handsome one. He sent half of it to his mother, and this was
sufficient to provide all that was needed for her and his sister's
comfort. He had done this innocently, hitherto, but now that his
eyes were opened, his knowledge would make him an accomplice in the
conspiracy.

In his uncertainty he decided upon what was not, perhaps, the most
judicious course, to ask Major Grafton directly in regard to the
matter.

An opportunity soon came.

"Major Grafton," Ben began, "how long since did Philip die?"

The major regarded him suspiciously. The question put him on his
guard.

"A few months ago," he answered indifferently.

"Were you--his guardian?"

"You seem curious this morning, Philip," answered the major, coldly.

If Ben had been older and more experienced he would have been
able to get at the truth indirectly, but it was his nature to be
straightforward.

"I heard something yesterday that disturbed me," he said.

Major Grafton threw himself back in an easy-chair and fixed his eyes
searchingly on the boy.

"Tell me what you heard," he said, shortly, "and from whom."

"I was sitting on a bench near the lake when two ladies began
speaking about you--and me."

"Tell me what they said," broke in Grafton, impatiently.

"The truth must be told," thought Ben, "even if Major Grafton gets
offended."

"They said that Philip had a large fortune, and you were his
guardian. When he died the money was to go to some cousins in New
York. They said that you had concealed his death, and so continued
to draw the income of the property, and were palming off me for him.
They seemed to think I was your nephew, and was in the plot."

Major Grafton was a good deal disturbed by what Ben had told him. Of
course there was a strong chance that the truth would come out some
time, but he had hoped to keep it concealed for some years, perhaps.

"These ladies seem to have a large share of imagination," he said,
with a forced laugh. "From one fabrication you may judge all. You
know whether you are my nephew or not, and whether you are engaged
in any plot?"

"No, sir, of course not."

"The whole thing is ridiculous; I don't think you need trouble
yourself any more about it."

But Ben was not satisfied, and Major Grafton could see this from his
look.

"That was my reason for asking whether Philip had any property," he
continued, with an inquiring look.

"I must satisfy him in some way," thought the major, "or he will
compromise me."

"I wouldn't like to think I was keeping any property away from the
rightful owners," proceeded Ben.

"You can put yourself at ease," said the major, carelessly. "Those
ladies, whoever they are, know almost nothing about the matter.
Philip did have a little property, yielding scarcely enough for his
own expenses. At his death it fell to me. His grandfather was an
intimate friend of mine, and made the arrangement in gratitude for
my care of the boy."

"Then there were no cousins in New York?" asked Ben, doubtfully.

"Not that I am aware of. That is a lie out of whole cloth. There
is no one more unscrupulous than a female gossip. Did you speak to
either of the ladies?"

"No, sir."

"That was right. You might have made mischief and seriously offended
me. Do you often write home?"

"Every week, sir."

"I have no objection to that, but I must caution you against
repeating this nonsensical and absurd story. I have taken a great
deal of interest in you on account of your resemblance to poor
Philip, to whom I was tenderly attached. It is on that account I
engaged you to accompany me. You would not be likely to do as well
in New York?"

"No, sir; no one would think of paying me as liberally as you do."

"I am glad you appreciate the advantages of your position. I hope
you won't lose it by any foolishness," added Grafton, significantly.

Ben felt that there was no more to say, but he was far from
satisfied. He was thoroughly persuaded within himself that the story
was true, and that Major Grafton was acting a fraudulent part. How
could he find out?

He had not forgotten his visit to the office of Mr. Codicil, just
before they left New York. He had seen enough, then, to be aware
that between Major Grafton and the lawyer there were business
relations, and he suspected that they referred to the boy whose
place he had taken. This would seem to bear out and confirm the
story told by the two ladies. Now, if he should write a letter to
Mr. Codicil he might ascertain all he needed to know, and if all
was as he suspected he could refuse having any further part in the
conspiracy. He did not remember the exact location of Mr. Codicil's
office, but he did remember his first name, and he judged rightly
that a letter simply directed to the lawyer, and addressed New York,
would be likely to reach him.

Major Grafton, after the interview between Ben and himself, watched
our hero with ever-increasing suspicion. He felt that he was in the
boy's power. An indiscreet revelation would overthrow the fabric of
fraud which in his self-interest he had erected, and reduce him to
earning a precarious living at the gaming-table. In the case of an
average boy he would have been secure, from the boy's regard for
his own interest; but he saw that Ben was a conscientious boy, of
honorable impulses, and this disgusted him.

"The boy is dangerous," he decided. "I must place him where he can
do no mischief."

When a man is thoroughly unprincipled he can always find ways and
means for the carrying out of his iniquitous plans. Major Grafton
experienced no difficulty in devising a method for staving off the
threatened danger.

One day after a leisurely breakfast, during which Major Grafton had
been unusually chatty and affable, he said:

"Philip, I have a pleasure in store for you."

"What is it, sir?"

"We are going to take a long drive into the country."

"Thank you, sir. I shall enjoy it."

Fifteen minutes afterward an open carriage drove into the court-yard
of the hotel.

"Is this the carriage I ordered?" asked Major Grafton.

"It is for M. de Grafton," said the driver.

"But you are not the man I spoke to."

"No, it was my brother. He is obliged to stay at home; his wife is
taken suddenly sick."

"Very well; you will no doubt answer the purpose equally well.
Philip, take a seat inside."
