whetting. Gilbert cut the string and then the laces, 
and slipped the seal into his wallet, unrolling the 
stiff sheet till he found a short writing, some six or 
eight lines, not covering half the page, and signed, 
'Eleanora R.' 





But when he had opened the letter he saw that it 
was not to be read easily. Nevertheless, his eye 
lighted almost at once upon the name which of all 
others he should not have expected to find there, 
'Beatrix.' There was no mistaking the letters, and 
presently he found them once again, and soon after 
that the sense was clear to him. 

'If this reach you,' it said, in moderately fair 
Latin, 'greeting. I will that you make haste and 
come again to our castle in Paris, both because you 
shall at all times be welcome, and more especially 
now, and quickly, because the noble maiden Beatrix 
de Curboil is now at this court among my ladies, and 
is in great hope of seeing you, since she has left her 
father to be under my protection. Moreover, Ber- 
nard, the abbot, is preaching the Cross in Chartres 
and other places, and is coming here before long, 
and to V^zelay. Beatrix greets you. ' 

" Can you tell me where I can find the messenger 
who brought you this ? " asked Gilbert, looking up 
when he had at last deciphered every word. 

But Arnold was gone. The idea that an acquaint- 
ance whom he had been endeavouring to convert to 
republican doctrines should be in correspondence 
with one of those sovereigns against whom he so 
bitterly inveighed had finally disgusted him, and he 
had gone his way, if not in wrath, at least in dis- 
pleasure. Seeing himself alone, Gilbert shrugged his 
shoulders indifferently, and began to walk up and 
down, reading the letter over and over. It was very 
short, but yet it contained so much information that 
he found some difficulty in adjusting his thoughts to 



 

what was an entirely new situation, and one which 
no amount of thinking could fully explain. He was 
far too simple to suppose that Eleanor had called 
Beatrix to her court solely for the sake of bringing 
him back to Paris. He therefore imagined the most 
complicated and absurd reasons for Queen Eleanor's 
letter. 

He told himself that he must have been mistaken 
from beginning to end ; that the Queen had never felt 
anything except friendship for him, but a friendship 
far deeper and more sincere than he had realized; 
and he was suddenly immensely grateful to her for 
her wish to build up happiness in his life. But 
then, again, she knew as well as he — or as well as 
he thought he knew — that the Church would not 
easily consent to his union with Beatrix, and as he 
closed his eyes and recalled scenes of which the 
memories were still vivid and clear, the shadow that 
had chilled his heart in Paris rose again between 
him and Eleanor's face, and he distrusted her, and 
her kiss and her letter, and her motives. Then, too, 
it seemed very strange to him that Beatrix should 
have left her father's house; for Arnold de Curboil 
had always loved her, and it did not occur to Gil- 
bert that his own mother had made the girl's life 
intolerable. He was to learn that later, and when 
he knew it, he tasted the last and bitterest dregs of 
all. Nevertheless, he could not reasonably doubt 
the Queen's word; he was positively certain that 
he should find Beatrix at the French court, and from 
the first he had not really hesitated about leav- 
ing at once. It seemed to be the only possible 





course, though it was diametrically opposed to all 
the good resolutions which had of late flitted 
through his dreams like summer moths. 

On the next day but one, early in the spring 
morning, Gilbert and his men rode slowly down the 
desolate Via Lata, and under Aurelian's arch, 
past the gloomy tomb of Augustus on the left, held 
by the Count of Tusculum, and out at last upon the 
rolling Campagna, northward, by the old Flaminian 
Way. 



CHAPTER X 

June was upon Italy, as a gossamer veil and a 
garland on the brow of a girl bride. The first sweet 
hay was drying in Tuscan valleys; the fig leaves 
were spreading, and shadowing the watery fruit 
that begins to grow upon the crooked twigs before 
the leaves themselves, and which the people call 
"fig-blossoms," because the real figs come later; the 
fresh and silvery olive shoots had shed a snow-flurry 
of small white stars; the yellow holy thorn still 
blossomed in the rough places of the hills, and the 
blending of many wild flowers was like a maiden 
blush on the earth's soft bosom. 

At early morning Gilbert rode along the crest of a 
low and grassy hill that was still sheltered from the 
sun by the high mountains to eastward, and he drank 
in the cool and scented air as if it had been water 
of paradise, and he a man saved out of death to life 
by the draught. There was much peace in his heart, 
and a still security that he had not felt yet since he 
had seen his father lying dead before him. He knew 
not how it was, but he was suddenly sure that Beatrix 
loved him and had escaped to the court of France in 
the hope of finding him, and was waiting for him 
day by day. And he was also sure that the Church 
would not cut him off from her in the end, let the 







churchmen say what they would. Was not the Queen 
of France his friend ? She would plead his case, and 
the Pope would understand and take away the har. 
He thought of these things, and he felt his hopes 
rising bright, like the steady sun. 

He reached the end of the crest and drew rein 
before descending, and he looked down into the 
broad valley and the river winding in and out among 
trees, gleaming like silver out there in the sun 
beyond the narrowing shadow, then dark blue, and 
then, in places, as black as ink. The white road, 
broad and dusty, winding on to Florence, followed 
the changing river. Gilbert took his cap from his 
head and felt the coolness of the morning on his fore- 
head and the gentle breath of the early summer in 
his fair hair ; and then, sitting there in the deep 
silence, bareheaded, it seemed to him that he was in 
the very holy place of God's cathedral. 

" The peace of God, which passeth all understand- 
ing," he repeated softly and almost involuntarily. 

"Now the God of peace be with you all, amen," 
answered Dunstan. 

But there was a tone in his voice that made Gil- 
bert look at him, and he saw in the man's face a 
quiet smile, as if something amused him, while the 
black eyes were fixed on a sight far away. Dunstan 
was pointing to what he saw; so Gilbert looked, too, 
and he perceived a gleaming, very far off, that moved 
slowly on the white road beside the shining river. 

" They are expecting a fight to-day, " said Gilbert, 
" for they are in mail and their mule-train is behind 
them." 



 

" Shall we turn aside and ride up the mountain, to 
let them pass ? " asked Dunstan, who could iight like 
a wildcat, but had also the cat's instinctive caution. 

"It would be a pity not to see the fight," answered 
Gilbert, and he began to ride forward down the 
descent. 

The track was worn down to the depth of a man's 
height by the hoofs of the beasts that had trodden it 
for ages ; and in places it was very narrow, so that 
two laden mules could hardly pass each other. 
Young chestnut shoots of three or four years' growth 
sprang up in thick green masses from the top of the 
bank on each side, and now and then the branches of 
nut trees almost joined their broad leaves across the 
way, making a deep shade that was cool and smelt 
of fresh mould and green things. A little way down 
the hill a spring of water trickled into a little pool 
hollowed out by travellers, and the water overflowed 
and made thick black mud of the earth churned up 
with last year's dead leaves. 

Gilbert let his horse stop to drink, and his men 
waited in single file to take their turn. 

" Psst ! " The peculiar hiss which Italians make 
to attract attention came sharp and distinct from 
the low growth of the chestnut shoots. 

Gilbert turned his head quickly in the direction 
of the sound. A swarthy face appeared, framed in a 
close leathern cap on which small rings of rusty iron 
were sewn strongly, but not very regularly. Then 
a long left arm, clad in the same sort of mail, pushed 
the lower boughs aside and made a gesture in the 
direction whence Gilbert had come, which was meant 





to warn him back — a gesture of the flat hand, held 
across the breast with thumb hidden, just moving a 
little up and down. 

" Why should I go back ? " asked Gilbert, in his 
natural voice. 

"Because yes," answered the dark man, in the 
common Italian idiom, and in a low tone. " Because 
we are waiting for the Florentines, certain of us of 
Pistoja, and we want no travellers in the way. And 
then — because, if you will not — " 

The right arm suddenly appeared, and in the hand 
was a spear, and the act was a threat to run Gilbert 
through, unmailed as he was, and just below his adver- 
sary. But as Gilbert laid his hand upon his sword, 
looking straight at the man's eye, he very suddenly 
saw a strange sight ; for there was a long arrow stick- 
ing through the head, the point out on one side and the 
feather on the other ; and for a moment the man still 
looked at him with eyes wide open. Then, standing 
as he was, his body slowly bent forward upon itself 
as if curling up, and with a crash of steel it rolled 
down the bank into the pool of water, where the 
lance snapped under it. 

For little Alric, the Saxon groom, had quietly 
slipped to the ground and had strung his bow, sus- 
pecting trouble, and had laid an arrow to the string, 
waiting; and little Alric's aim was very sure; it 
was also the first time that he had shot a man, 
and he came of men who had been bowmen since 
Alfred's day, and before that, and had killed many, 
for generations, so that it was an instinct with them 
to slay with the bow. 



 

"Well done, boy! " cried Gilbert. 

But his horse reared back, as the dead body fell 
splashing into the pool, and Alric quietly unstrung 
his bow again and remounted to be ready. Then 
Gilbert would have ridden on, but Dunstan hindered 
him. 

" This fellow was but a sentinel, " he said. " A 
little further on you will find these woods filled 
with armed men waiting to surprise the riders we 
saw from above. Surely, I will die with you, sir; 
but we need not die like rats in a corn-bin. Let us 
ride up a little way again, and then skirt the woods 
and take the road where it joins the river, down in 
the valley." 

" And warn those men of Florence that they are 
riding into an ambush," added Gilbert, turning his 
horse. 

So they rode up the hill ; and scarcely were they 
out of sight of the spring when a very old woman 
and a ragged little boy crept out of the bushes, with 
knives, and began to rob the dead man of his rusty 
mail and his poor clothes. 

Gilbert reached the road a long stone's-throw 
beyond the last chestnut shoots, and galloped for- 
ward to meet the advancing knights and men-at-arms. 
He drew rein suddenly, a dozen lengths before them, 
and threw up has .open right hand. They were riding 
leisurely, but all in mail, some having surcoats with 
devices embroidered thereon, and most of them with 
their heads uncovered, their steel caps and hoods of 
mail hanging at their saddle-bows. 

"Sirs," cried Gilbert, in a loud, clear voice, "you 





ride to an ambusli ! The chestnut woods are full of 
the men of Pistoja." 

A knight who rode in front, and was the leader, 
came close to Gilbert. He was a man not young, 
with a dark, smooth face, as finely cut as a relief 
carved upon a shell, and his hair was short and iron- 
grey. 

Gilbert told him what had happened in the woods, 
and the elderly knight listened quietly and thought- 
fully, while examining Gilbert's face with half- 
unconscious keenness. 

"If you please," said the young man, "I will 
lead you by the way I have ridden, and you may 
enter the bushes from above, and fight at better 
advantage." 

But the Florentine smiled at such simple tactics. 
To feel the breeze, he held up his right hand, which 
issued from a slit in the wrist of his mail, so that 
the iron mitten hung loose ; and the wind was blow- 
ing toward the woods. He called to his squire. 

"Take ten men, light torches, and set fire to 
those young trees." 

The men got a cook's earthenware pot of coals, 
fed all day long with charcoal on the march, lest 
there should be no fire for the camp at night; and 
they lit torches of pitched hemp-rope, and presently 
there was a great smoke and a crackling of green 
branches. But the leader of the Florentines put on 
his steel cap and drew the mail hood down over his 
shoulders, while all the others who were bareheaded 
did the same. 

"Sir," said the knight to Gilbert, "you should 





withdraw behind us, now that you have done us this 
great service. For presently there will be fighting 
here, and you are unmailed." 

"The weather is overwarm for an iron coat," an- 
swered Gilbert, with a laugh. "But if I shall not 
trespass upon the courtesies of your country by thrust- 
ing my company upon you, I will ride at your left 
hand, that you may the more safely slay with your 
right." 

"Sir," answered the other, "you are a very cour- 
teous man. Of what country may you be ? " 

" An Englishman, sir, and of Norman blood. " He 
also told his name. 

"Gino Buondelmonte, at your service," replied 
the knight, naming himself. 

"Nay, sir," laughed Gilbert, "a knight cannot 
serve a simple squire ! " 

" It is never shame for gentle-born to serve gentle- 
born," answered the other. 

But now the smoke was driving the men of Pistoja 
out of the wood, and the hillside down which Gilbert 
had ridden was covered with men in mail, on horse- 
back, and with footmen in leather and such poor 
armour as had been worn by the dead sentinel. 
Buondelmonte thrust his feet home in his wide stir- 
rups, settled himself in the saddle, shortened his 
reins, and drew his sword, while watching all the 
time the movements of the enemy. Gilbert sat 
quietly watching them, too. As yet he had never 
ridden at a foe, though he had fought on foot, and 
he unconsciously smiled with pleasure at the pros- 
pect, trying to pick out the man likely to fall by 




his sword. In England, or in France, he would 
certainly have put on the good mail which was 
packed on the sumpter mule's back; but here in 
the sweet Italian spring, in the morning breeze full 
of the scent of wild flowers, and the humming of 
bees and the twittering of little birds, even fighting 
had a look of harmless play, and he felt as secure in 
his cloth tunic as if it had been of woven steel. 

The position of the Florentines was the better, for 
they had the broad homeward road behind them, in 
case of defeat ; but the men of Pistoja, driven from 
the woods by the thick smoke and the burning of the 
undergrowth, were obliged to scramble down a de- 
scent so steep that many of them were forced to dis- 
mount, and they then found themselves huddled 
together in a narrow strip of irregular meadow 
between the road and the foot of the stony hill. 
Buondelmonte saw his advantage. His sword shot 
up at arm's length over his head, and his high, clear 
voice rang out in a single word of command. 

In a moment the peace of nature was rent by the 
scream of war. Hoofs thundered, swords flashed, 
men yelled, and arrows shot through the great cloud 
of dust that rose suddenly as from an explosion. In 
the front of the charge the Italian and the Norman 
rode side by side, the inscrutable black eyes and the 
calm olive features beside the Norman's terrible 
young figure, with its white glowing face and fair 
hair streaming on the wind, and wide, deep eyes like 
blue steel, and the quivering nostrils of the man 
born for fight. 

Short was the strife and sharp, as the Florentines 



 

spread to right and left of their leader and pressed 
the foe back against the steep hill in the narrow 
meadow. Then Buondelmonte thrust out straight 
and sure, in the Italian fashion, and once the mortal 
wound was in the face, and once in the throat, and 
many times men felt it in their breasts through 
mail and gambison and bone. But Gilbert's great 
strokes flashed like lightnings from his pliant wrist, 
and behind the wrist was the Norman arm, and 
behind the arm the relentless pale face and the even 
lips, that just tightened upon each other as the death- 
blows went out, one by one, each to its place in a life. 
The Italian destroyed men skilfully and quickly, 
yet as if it were distasteful to him. The Norman 
slew like a bright destroying angel, breathing the 
swift and silent wrath of God upon mankind. 

Blow upon blow, with clash of steel, thrust after 
thrust as the darting of serpents, till the dead lay in 
heaps, and the horses' hoofs churned blood and grass 
to a green-red*foam, till the sword-arm waited high 
and then sank slowly, because there was none for the 
sword to strike, and the* point rested among the close- 
sewn rings of mail on Buondelmonte 's foot, and the 
thin streams of blood trickled quietly down the 
dimmed blade. 

" Sir, " said Buondelmonte, courteously, " you are 
a marvellous fine swordsman, though you fence not 
in our manner, with the point. I am your debtor 
for the safety of my left side. Are you hurt, sir?" 

" Not I ! " laughed Gilbert, wiping his broad blade 
slowly on his horse's mane for lack of anything 
better. 





Then Buondelmonte looked at him again and 
smiled. 

" You have won yourself a fair crest," he laughed, 
as he glanced at Gilbert's cap. 

" A crest ? " Gilbert put up his hand, and uttered 
an exclamation as it struck against a sharp steel point. 

A half-spent arrow had pierced the top of his 
red cloth cap and was sticking there, like a woman's 
long hairpin. He thought that if it had struck 
two inches lower, with a little more force, he should 
have looked as the man in the woods did, whom 
Alric had killed. He plucked the shaft from the 
stiff cloth with some difficulty, and, barely glancing 
at it, tossed it away. But little Alric, who had 
left the guide to take care of the mules and had fol- 
lowed the charge on foot, picked up the arrow, 
marked it with his knife and put it carefully into 
his leathern quiver, which he filled with arrows he 
picked up on the grass till it would hold no more. 
Dunstan, who had ridden in the press with the 
rest, was looking among the dead for a good sword 
to take, his own being broken. 

"Florence owes you a debt, sir," said Buondel- 
monte, an hour later, when they were riding back 
from the pursuit. " But for your warning, many of 
us would be lying dead in that wood. I pray you, 
take from the spoil, such as it is, whatsoever you 
desire. And if it please you to stay with us, the 
archbishop shall make a knight of you, for you have 
won knighthood to-day." 

But Gilbert shook his head, smiling gravely. 

"Praised be God, I need nothing, sir," he an- 



 

swered. " I thank you for your courteous hospitality, 
but I cannot stay, seeing that I ride upon a lady's 
bidding. And as for a debt, sir, Florence has paid 
hers largely in giving me your acquaintance. " 

" My friendship, sir, " replied Buondelmonte, not 
yielding in compliment to the knightly youth. 

So they broke bread together and drank a draught, 
and parted. But Buondelmonte gave Dunstan a 
small purse of gold and a handful of silver to little 
Alric and the muleteer, and Gilbert rode away with 
his men, and all were well pleased. 

Yet when he was alone in the evening, a sadness 
and a horror of what he had done came over him ; for 
he had taken life that day as a man mows down grass, 
in swaths, and he could not tell why he had slain, 
for he knew not the men who fought on the two sides, 
nor their difference. He had charged because he saw 
men charging, he had struck for the love of strife, and 
had killed because it was of his nature to kill. But 
now that the blood was shed, and the sun which had 
risen on life was going down on death, Gilbert 
Warde was sorry for what he had done, and his brave 
charge seemed but a senseless deed of slaughter, for 
which he should rather have done penance than 
received knighthood. 

" I am no better than a wild beast, " he said, 
when he had told Dunstan what he felt. " Go and 
find out a priest to pray for those I have killed 
to-day." 

He covered his brow with his hand as he sat at 
the supper table. 

"I go," answered the young man. "Yet it is a 





pleasant sight to see the lion weeping for pity over 
the calf he has killed." 

"The lion kills that he may eat and himself live," 
answered Gilbert. " And the men who fought to-day 
fought for a cause. But I smote for the wanton love 
of smiting that is in all our blood, and I am ashamed. 
Bid the priest pray for me also." 



CHAPTER XI 

The court of France was at V^zelay — the King, the 
Queen, the great vassals of the kingdom at the King's 
command, and those of Aquitaine and Guienne 
and Poitou in the train of Eleanor, whose state out- 
shone and dwarfed her husband's. And there was 
Bernard, the holy man of Clairvaux, to preach the 
Cross, where old men remembered the voice of 
Peter the Hermit and the shout of men now long 
dead in far Palestine, crying, "God's will! God's 
will!" 

Because the church of Saint Mary Magdalen was 
too small to hold the multitude, they were gathered 
together in a wide grassy hollow without the little 
town, and there a raised floor of wood had been built 
for the King and Queen and the great nobles ; but 
the rest of the knights and Eleanor's three hundred 
ladies stood upon the grass-grown slope, and were 
crowded together by the vast concourse of the people. 

The sun was already behind the hill, and the hot 
July air had cooled a little ; but it was still hot, and 
the breathing of the multitude could be heard in the 
silence. Gilbert had come but just in time ; he had 
left his men to find him a lodging if they could, 
and now he pressed forward as well as he might, 
to see and hear, but most of all to find out, if 







he could, the face of Beatrix among the three 
hundred. 

There sat the Queen, in scarlet and gold, wearing 
the crown upon her russet hair, and the King in gold 
and blue beside her, square, grave, and pale as ever; 
and when Gilbert had searched the three hundred fair 
young faces in vain, his eyes came back to the most 
beautiful woman in the world. He saw that she was 
fairer than even his memory of her, and he felt pride 
that she should call herself his friend. 

Then suddenly there was a stir among the knights 
behind the throne, and though they were standing 
closely, shoulder to shoulder, and pressed one against 
another, yet they divided to let the preacher go 
through. He came alone, with quiet eyes, thanking 
the knights to right and left because they made way 
for him, and he passed between them quickly like a 
white shadow. So thought pierces matter and the 
spiritual being penetrates the terrestrial being and 
is unchanged. 

But when Bernard had ascended the white wooden 
stage and stood near the King and Queen, then the 
hushed stillness became a dead silence, and the eyes 
of all that multitude were fastened upon his face and 
form, as each could see him. For a moment every 
man held his breath as if an angel had come down 
from heaven, bringing on his lips the word of God 
and in his look the evidence of eternal light. He was 
the holy man of the world even while he lived, and 
neither before him nor after him, since the days of 
the Apostles, has any one person so stood in the eyes 
of all mankind. 



 

The gentle voice began to speak, without effort 
to be heard, yet as distinct and clear as if it spoke 
to each several ear, pleading for the cause of the 
Cross of Christ, and for the suffering men who 
held the holy places in the East with ever-weaken- 
ing hands, but still with undaunted, desperate 
courage. 

" Is there any man among you who has loved his 
mother, and has received her dying breath with her 
last blessing, and has laid her to rest in peace, in a 
place holy to him for her sake, and who would 
suffer that her grave should be defiled and defaced 
by her enemies, so long as he, her son, has in his body 
blood of hers to shed ? Is there any among you who 
would not fight, while he had breath, to save his 
father's dead bones from dishonour? Do you not 
daily boast that you will lay down your lives in a 
quarrel for the good name of your ladies, as you 
would for your own daughters' fair fame and your 
own wives' faithfulness? 

" And now, I say, is not the Church of God your 
mother, and are not her temples your most holy 
places ? You boast that you are ready to die for an 
honourable cause: yet Christ gave His life for us, 
not because of our honour, but because of our dis- 
honour, and our sins which are many and grievous ; 
and having atoned for us in His Holy Passion, He was 
laid at rest after the manner of men. And the place 
where He rested is sacred, for the Lord from Heaven 
lay therein when He had washed away our iniquity 
with His holy blood, when He had healed us by His 
stripes, when He had given His life that we might 





live, when He had endured the bondage of this dying 
flesh that we might be raised undying in the spirit, 
by Him, and through Him, and in Him. 

" Shall the earth that drank that blood be as other 
earth? Shall the place that echoed the seven words 
of agony be as other places ? Is the tomb where God 
rested Him of His crucified manhood to be given up 
to forgetfulness and defilement ? Or are we sinless, 
that we need not even the memory of the sacrifice, 
and so pure that we need no purification? I 
would that we were. The world is evil, the hour 
is late, the Judge is at hand, and we are lacking 
of good and eaten of evil, so that there is no whole 
part in us. 

" And yet we move not to save ourselves, though 
Christ gave His life to save us if we would stir 
ever so little, if we would but stretch out our hands 
to the hand that waits for ours. He bids us not be 
crucified, as He was for us. He bids us only take up 
our cross and follow Him, as He took it up Himself, 
and bore it to the place of death." 

Thus Bernard began to speak, gently at first, as 
one who rouses a friend from sleep to warn him of 
danger, and fears to be rough, yet cannot be silent; 
but by and by, in the breathing stillness, the sweet 
voice was strengthened and rang like the first clarion 
at dawn on the day of battle, far off and clear, heart- 
stirring and true. And with the rising tone came 
also the stronger word, and at last the spirit that 
moves more than word or voice. 

"Lay the Cross to your hearts as you wear it on 
your breasts. Bear it with you on the long day 



 

marches, and in the watches of night bow before it 
inwardly, and pray that you may have grace to bear 
it to the end. So shall your footsteps profit you, 
and your way shall be the way of the Cross, till you 
stand in the holy place. But if so be that God 
ask blood of you, blessed shall they be among you 
who shall give life freely, to die for the Cross 
of our Lord Christ; and they shall stand in the 
place that is holy indeed, before the Throne of 
God. 

" Yet beware of one thing. I would not that you 
should go out to fight for the Sepulchre as some of 
our fathers did, boasting in the Cross, yet in heart 
each for his own soul and none for the glory of 
Christ, counting the weariness, and the hurts, and 
the drops of blood as a sure reckoning to be repaid 
to you in heaven, as if you had lent God a piece of 
money which He must pay again. The Lord Jesus 
gave not His life at an account, nor His blood at 
usury ; He counted not the pain, nor was His suffer- 
ing set down in a book; but He gave all freely, of 
His love for men. Shall men therefore ask of God 
a return, saying : ' We have given Thee so much, as 
it were a wound, or it may be a life, or else a prayer, 
and a day of fasting, see that Thou pay us what is 
just ' ? That were not giving to God what is a man's 
own ; it were rather lending or selling to God what 
is His. See that you do not thus, but if you have 
anything to give, let it be given freely; or else 
give not at all, for it is written that from him that 
hath not faith shall be taken even such things as 
he hath. 





"But if you take the Cross, and arm yourselves 
to fight for it, and go your way to Palestine to help 
your brethren in their sore need, go not for your- 
selves, suffer not for yourselves, fight not for your- 
selves. For as God is greater than man, so is the 
glory of God greater than the glory of self and more 
worthy that you should die for it. Think not 
therefore of earning a reward, but of honouring 
the Lord Christ in the holy place where He died 
for you. 

"March not as it were to do penance for your 
old sins, hoping for forgiveness, as a trader that 
brings merchandise looks for a profit! Strike 
not as slaves, who fight lest they be beaten with 
rods, neither as men in fear of everlasting fire 
and the torments of hell! Neither go out as 
thieves, seeking to steal the earth for yourselves, 
and striving not with the unbeliever, but with 
the rich man for his riches, and with the great 
man for his possessions ! I say, go forth and do 
battle for God's sake and His glory ! March ye 
for Christ and to bring the people to Him out of 
darkness ! Take with you the Cross to set it in the 
hearts of men, and the seed of the tree of Life to 
plant among desolate nations! 

" Ye kings, that are anointed leaders, lead ye the 
armies of Heaven I Ye knights, that are sworn to 
honour, draw your unsullied swords for the honour 
of God ! Men and youths, that bear arms by alle- 
giance, be ye soldiers of Christ and allegiant to the 
Cross ! Be ye all first for honour, first for France, 
first for God Most High ! " 



