how much sto' she sot by them young old hyars. You mus' see ef you can't
get her some mo'."

I dropped my head on the window-sill and cried out the tears that
scalded my lids at the unexpected touch of sympathy. Then I fell to
thinking and with a purpose.

I went down to dinner with a tolerably composed countenance, a good
appetite, and a well-digested scheme of vengeance in my mind. Uncle Ike
was my only co-conspirator. I think I can see him now as he rolled back
against the garden fence to laugh as I unfolded my design.

"Ef you ain't the beater!" he chuckled, his pepper-and-salt poll
tilted to one shoulder, and eyeing me with undisguised admiration. "An'
you say nobody ain' put it into your hade?"

"I haven't said a word about it to anybody else, Uncle Ike. You'll help
me,--won't you?"

He doubled himself up like a dyspeptic jack-knife, the ingenuity of the
plot gaining upon his imagination.

I pressed my advantage:--

"And don't tell Mam' Chloe--please! She'll think it is cruel. But it
isn't. It's just only justice. And it can't bring them back."

I clenched my fists, and my eyes filled.

"That's so, Miss Molly, that's so," sobering instantly. "It is mighty
hard on you--powerful hard."

"And, Uncle Ike,"--hurrying to get it out lest my voice should
fail,--"please don't let anybody give me any more old hares, or any
'live things to keep. They'll just die, or be murdered by other folks'
cats--or something. It's no use making myself happy for a little while
just to be sorry for ever and ever so long afterward."

With which epigram I ran away, afraid to try to utter another word.

That evening we were all on the front porch. The air was breezeless, the
moon as yellow as brass through sultry fogs. My mother, in a white
dress, lay back in her rocking-chair and fanned herself languidly. My
father smoked his Powhatan pipe upon the steps, leaning against one
pillar of the roof. Mary 'Liza in pale-blue lawn, occupied the other end
of the step. Her hands were in her lap. Cinderella dozed upon a fold of
her skirt. Dorinda had been undressed and rocked to sleep at sunset.
Preciosa had gone upstairs at the same time. I saw her lying upon the
foot of our bed after supper, her eyes narrowed to slender slits with
sleep or slyness. I had a shrewd impression that if I were to go
upstairs now I should not find her in the same place. Instead of
verifying the surmise in this way I stole noiselessly out of the family
group, sauntering along carelessly until I turned the corner of the
house, after which I ran like a lapwing to the garden gate, the
rendezvous agreed upon between Uncle Ike and myself.

He was there with the various "properties" I had ordered.

Imprimis, a big dish-pan; second, a monstrous black pot from which
steam arose into the hot night; third, a stout twine, to one end of
which was attached a brick; a lump of raw liver dangled at the other. By
my directions the pan was balanced upon the shelf where the cottage had
stood, so that a slight pull would overset it, the brick was laid in the
bottom, the string with the liver attachment hanging over the side.
Lastly, Uncle Ike mounted upon the stool I was wont to use when I
visited my murdered dears, and filled the pan from the pot. All being
ready, we conspirators withdrew to the unlighted dining room, and
stationed ourselves at a window.

Our watch was not tedious. I was the first to discern a moving speck in
the dim vista of the walk leading from the gate far down the garden. It
enlarged and assumed a definite form, slowly. Evidently it was a scout,
and the advance a reconnoissance. Feline artifice was in every line and
motion. A ray of misty moonlight lay athwart the entrance to the garden.
The gate was propped open. As the cat crossed it, we recognized a wily
and wicked old Tom from the stable, a disreputable plebeian prowler,
never tolerated in the house grounds. I hardly smothered an ejaculation
as dainty Preciosa glided into the illuminated area and took part in the
furtive inspection of the preparations made for the reception of last
night's marauders. A third, and yet a fourth, miscreant joined the
first two, and heads were laid together in a council of war.

The liver hung high. Tom rose upon his hind feet, clawed the air
futilely and came down sheepishly upon all fours. Next, a small, nimble
black cat jumped and fell short of the bait. Uncle Ike snickered, and I
drew in my breath excitedly, as the pampered exquisite, My Lady
Preciosa, tripped mincingly into the open. The moon shone out obligingly
to let us see her fall into position, her head upraised toward the
tempting morsel--(pig's liver, and none too fresh at that)--her
crouching body thrown well back upon the haunches, her tail, enlarged to
double the usual size, waving sinuously from side to side in leisurely
calculation of distance and chances. Suddenly she launched her supple
body into space like a catapult, caught the meat between her claws,
swung in the air for a victorious half-second--and then, the deluge!

A chorus of screeches, a frantic stampede in all directions, and the
arena was clear of all except the home-made infernal machine,--the empty
dish-pan upside down on the ground, the brick, the string, and the raw
meat lying under it.

The caterwauling, Uncle Ike's "ky-yi!" and my scream of laughter,
brought the porch-party to the spot. By previous agreement neither of us
mentioned Preciosa's name. I had to pinch myself violently to contain
the unseemly mirth bottled up in my wicked soul when Mary 'Liza was "so
glad the horrible creatures were punished," and "hoped" gently "that
Molly was convinced, now, that poor, dear Preciosa was innocent."

"By the way, where is Preciosa?" asked my father.

"She seemed so sleepy that I gave her her supper, and put her to bed,
when I took Dorinda upstairs," said her surety.

Perhaps my father partly interpreted the gleam in my eyes and the
quivering muscles about my uncontrollable mouth, for he glanced keenly
at me and made as if he would let the inquiry drop. Not so my mother.
She bade Mary 'Liza run upstairs and make sure that Preciosa was there.

"I want my dear little girl to be entirely satisfied that her cousin was
right, and that she did the cat an injustice," she said with judicial
mildness.

Preciosa was not in our room, and she stayed out all night, greatly to
her owner's alarm and distress. Her habits were so regular, her
deportment was always so impeccable that the circumstance assumed the
proportions of an Event by breakfast time. My mother was anxious, Mary
'Liza sorrowful, and my father shook his head more gravely than the
occasion seemed to warrant.

"Molly may not have been so far wrong after all," he observed to my
mother, "in spite of the array of circumstantial evidence against her."

My mother was unconvinced.

"Previous good behavior should count for much in such a case," she
urged. "And our little Molly is too apt to jump at conclusions. We
cannot be too careful how we accuse others of sins which they may never
have committed."

I understood what they said perfectly. They never talked down to us.
That was one reason we were called "old-fashioned" and "precocious" by
people who had one set of words for their own use, and another for
children. My parents considered, and I think rightly, that the best and
most correct forms of speech should be taught to mere infants, that it
is as easy to train a child to be grammatical as to let it lapse into
all sorts of slovenly inaccuracies that must be unlearned at school, and
in society. So, when they talked of "circumstantial evidence" I had a
fair inkling of what the phrase conveyed. Preciosa was upon trial for
misdemeanor, and I for backbiting.

I ate away industriously to keep from "answering back,"--a cardinal
offence in nursery government. Mary 'Liza had no appetite, but she,
also, remained silent, and there was moisture under her eyelids.

"We will suspend judgment--" began my father, and interrupted himself to
ask--"What have you got there, Ike?"

The butler grinned from ear to ear, and broke into uncontrollable
cachinnations in depositing his burden upon the floor.

"One of the stable-boys foun' it in the lof', suh."

He could say no more, and would not have been heard had he gone on, for
my father roared, my mother fairly shrieked with laughter, and I went
into hysterics, while Mam' Chloe and Gilbert joined in the general
racket from the doorway.

An abject nondescript cringed at Mary 'Liza's feet, whimpering
piteously. The devil's broth concocted by Uncle Ike, according to my
receipt, was warm starch, made blue with indigo. A few red peppers were
boiled in it to dissuade the cats from licking it off before it could
dry. It adhered to every individual hair of Preciosa's body. She looked
like an azure porcupine. I had thought, at first, of using soot as
coloring matter, but the thought of the blue appealed to my sense of the
congruous ridiculous. I was more than content with the result. Why a
blue cat should be more mirth-provoking than a yellow may not be
explicable, but the fact remains. Even Mary 'Liza shrank from contact
with the absurd object, and the moisture condensed into falling drops.

"Oh, Aunt Mary! do you think it can be Preciosa? It looks like
a--monster!"

With tears running down his cheeks, and his sides shaking with gusts of
merriment, my father took me upon his knee, and gave me the funniest
kiss I ever had--a jerky kiss, as if a bee had bobbed against my mouth.

"You'll be the death of me yet, child!" And after another series of
side-shakings--"So much for circumstantial evidence!"

[Illustration]




Chapter XI

Frankenstein


The morning was biting cold. A northwest wind had been busy for hours
sweeping and dusting the sky until, now that it was resting from its
labors, the blue vault was as clean and bright as our mahogany
dining-table after Uncle Ike had polished it with beeswax and rosin.

At the breakfast-table the butter splintered off under the knife, and
the milk was frozen so hard that Mary 'Liza and I sugared it and made
believe it was ice-cream. When Gilbert, the under dining-room servant,
brought in the buckwheat cakes and waffles from the kitchen, he had to
cover them with a hot plate, and then run as hard as he could go across
the yard to the house, to keep them from chilling on the way.

There are no buckwheat cakes nowadays, like those that Aunt 'Ritta
made--glossy brown, all of a size, and porous as a sponge. It was great
fun to butter them, and then press them with the flat of a knife-blade,
to see spurts and spouts rise from the surface like so many hot oil
geysers.

That was the morning when I made the eight-cakes-and-one-sausage speech
that passed into a family proverb. The night before I had thrown a
candle-end, four inches long, into the fire, and my mother had told me
it was a Christian duty to be economical, defining the word for me.
Bent, as usual, upon practising what I learned, I divided my sausage
into eight bits, and ate one with each cake.

Cousin Molly Belle and Cousin Frank Morton had stayed all night with us,
and the talk at table was so lively that nobody noticed what I was
about. We were not allowed to chatter during meals when others than the
family were present, or, indeed, at any other time if grown people were
talking, until invited by them to take part in the conversation. So I
waited for a lull in the chat to say aside to my mother at whose left
hand I sat:--

"Mother! I have made one sausage do for eight buckwheat cakes. Wasn't
that economical?"

Even Cousin Molly Belle laughed, the "aside" being more audible than I
meant to have it. True, she hugged me the next minute, her chair being
next to mine on the other side, but her eyes were lively with amusement,
and I saw that she was ready to break out again.

My poor dainty mother actually blushed. It was not fashionable then for
ladies, and little girls who were going to be ladies, to have hearty
appetites. School-girls were instructed that no well-bred young lady
ever ate more than two biscuits at breakfast or supper, and one was more
refined than two. The pinion of a partridge sufficed the Lydia Languish
of that day for the meat course of a dinner, and to be hungry was to be
coarse. My mother was a sensible matron who did not lean to extreme
views on any subject, but she did not rise superior to a mortification
such as this. When she said distressfully:--

"Molly! Eight cakes! I am ashamed that you should be so greedy!" I
comprehended that my offence was rank, and that not her taste alone, but
her sensibilities, suffered.

I got hot all over, as was my custom when self-convicted of sin, and sat
abashed, appetite and spirits put to flight together.

My father pulled his face straight.

"Never mind this time, mother! Better pay meat bills than doctor's
bills. And, on a cold day, a restless little body like hers needs a
great deal of carbon to keep the fires going. Eight buckwheat cakes and
a thumping big sausage represent just so much animal heat."

By and by, when I got a chance to speak to him alone, I asked him what
carbon was, and what he meant by the fires and animal heat. He was at
work at his table in "the office" in the yard, the Mortons having gone
home, but he put down his pen and talked to me for quite a while upon
nutrition and food values. He did not use those terms. They had not come
into vogue even with medical men and writers upon anatomy. Still, his
simple lecture made me comprehend that what I ate kept me alive and warm
and active, and how certain kinds of food made blood, and others,
muscle, and others were of little or no use in keeping up animal heat,
without which there could be no life.

I asked him if we could keep a dead thing warm if it would come to life
again. I was thinking of all my dead pets. It was pathetic,--the
familiarity of a seven-year-old with death and dissolution,--but of this
I was not aware.

He answered very gravely:--

"We cannot keep dead things warm, daughter. When animal heat goes, life
goes."

"And when animal heat comes, does life come?" I queried. "Is that what
makes things alive?"

"Yes, dear. I have not time to explain it to you now. I am very busy.
Some other time we will talk more about it."

I carried a spandy new idea, and a stirring, into the garden with me at
noon, as a chicken runs away to a corner with a crumb. The sun shone
brightly, and I easily kept comfortable by skipping up and down a long
walk, bordered on the northern side by an arbor-vitæ hedge. I did not
know that resinous evergreens really give out warmth, but I had found
out, for myself, that this was the warmest nook of the grounds in
winter, and haunted it exceedingly.

"When animal heat comes, life comes," I repeated aloud, in dancing
along.

The sentence sounded important, and pleased my ears. Presently, I would
set about getting all the meaning I could extract from it, and
experiment upon my acquisition. All my mental currency went into active
circulation.

An odd-looking thing lay in the middle of the path, that was not there
when I came down awhile ago. I thought, at the first glance, that it was
a hedgehog. I had seen pictures of the animal, and knew that when hunted
so closely that it cannot escape it rolls itself into a prickly ball.
This queer object was an oblong roll, about six inches in length and two
inches thick, and covered with very coarse brown fur or wool. I picked
it up. It was very cold. Then it could not be alive. It was light as a
puffball. Then it was empty. For the rest it was a puzzle. I ran with it
to Mam' Chloe, who was getting Bud to sleep in my mother's chamber.

She cast a look at my "find," and sniffed impatiently.

"Always huntin' and foolin' long some trash or nuther! Fetchin' er ole
dade sunflower in ter show me when I'm doin' my bes' ter git this
blessèd sugar-plum pie to sleep so's I ken git to my mendin'. Go 'long,
Miss Molly!"

I was used to her moods, clement and adverse, and I stood my ground.

"Are you sure it's a sunflower, mammy?"

"What you take me fur, chile? Don' I know a sunflower that's run ter
seed las' summer, an' is empty an' dade as Furious [Pharaoh] now? I got
no time to steddy 'bout sech foolishness."

I walked off,--not crestfallen, but blithe. One word had shunted my
ideas upon a new track. She called this nondescript--which might, or
might not, be the dried and warped disk of a sunflower that had cast its
seeds--"dead." What should hinder me from making it alive? It looked
like a hedgehog, or some other animal. It should be an animal! Food of
the right kind, and plenty of heat, were all it needed.

"Carbon and animal heat!" uttered I, consequentially, swelling with the
prospective joy of creation.

Already I foresaw, in imagination, the tremor of the coming breath
running through the uncouth body that would then put out, from
mysterious hiding-places, head and limbs and tail, as buds unfold into
flowers. I would confide to nobody what I was going to undertake. But I
would do it! I would keep up animal heat, hour after hour, day after
day, until my--Creature--breathed and moved and grew!

Without delay I hied me to the kitchen, and begged a cold sausage and a
pone of corn-bread from Aunt 'Ritta. She made no objection beyond asking
why I "wanted sassage 'n' corn-bread in de middle o' de mawnin', 'stead
o' piece o' cake, or somethin' sweet."

"Because the weather is so cold," I replied briefly, and got what I
wished with a grunt of "Dat's so, honey!" Negroes are constitutionally
averse to winter and cold, and recognize, without knowing why, the
carboniferous properties of pork and pone. I bore my treasures off to
the dining room, shut the door, and began my experiment in the hottest
flare of the fireshine.

[Illustration: MOLLY'S EXPERIMENT.

"I hied me to the kitchen and begged a cold sausage and a pone of
corn-bread from Aunt 'Ritta."]

The sunflower disk was a curiosity to me. It had curled inward upon
itself, leaving a considerable cavity within. I stuffed this with the
bread and sausage, crumbled fine, ruminating, the while, upon the
probability that the sausage and cakes I had devoured presented the like
appearance by the time they reached my stomach. When the variegated and
viscid compound was tucked away, I wound a soft string about the disk to
keep it in shape, and enveloped it, first in raw cotton, then in a bit
of red flannel. In my uncertainty as to which end would bourgeon into a
head, and from which would be evolved the tail, I left both ends open
that IT might be able to breathe when breath came. Lastly, I secreted it
under my cricket. It was what was known as "a box cricket," and the
enclosing sides came to within three inches of the floor. It stood at
the warmest corner of the hearth, and I was well-nigh roasted by the
time I had sat upon it long enough to read the chapter in Sandford and
Merton that tells of poor soft Tommy's choice of the shorter end of
the pole on which the load was hung, as likely to be the lighter. I
guessed that it was now time for me to expect to hear the birth-cry of
my Creature, or at least to detect some thrill of life. Lifting a corner
of the mufflings, I insinuated a tentative finger.

IT was warm! And before I withdrew my finger from the rough brown coat I
was confident that I felt a throb like a pulse heave ITS sides. It is
not an exaggeration to say that I was faint with excitement as I
replaced the wrappings. I had never heard of Pygmalion and his statue.
It was thirty years thereafter before I read Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein. When I did read it I could not fail to recall the
picture of the country-bred child, palpitating with awed delight in the
belief that she had wrested Something from Nothing. Youth alone is
absolutely fearless. The presumption of ignorance is akin to sublimity.

I sat down again to ecstatic dreamings. IT would be all my own when IT
was made--a pet so much better worth the having and holding than any
that had preceded it in my affections, that I thought of them--even of
the ever-lamented Darby and Joan--with compassionate contempt. I
pictured to myself the astonishment of the household, white and colored,
in beholding the miracle; the sensation in the neighborhood and county
when the news of what had come to pass was bruited abroad. From the
outermost border of Powhatan, from Chesterfield, and mayhap from over
the river separating Powhatan from Goochland, people would flock to see
me and wonder. Grown-uppers, who had never heard my name until now,
would tell other strangers what Mary Hobson Burwell, aged seven, had
done. I should be CELEBRATED!

I sat and roasted, shifting my position occasionally that another side
might get "done," and seemed to pore over my book until dinner was
ready.

"You are eating next to nothing, Molly," remarked my mother, casually,
during the meal. "Have you been to see 'Ritta since breakfast?"

"Yes, ma'am," I answered meekly; and she did not observe that I colored
uneasily.

Back to my watch I went when the table was cleared, and the others had
quitted the room. Uncle Ike replenished the fire, and commended my good
sense in "huggin' the chimbley-corner in sech cole weather," before he
left me to solitude, to Sandford and Merton, and to "Frank." I had
resolved to name him for my dear cousin-in-law. When I came to read
Frankenstein I marvelled at the coincidence. Frank continued warm, as
I ascertained by quarter-hourly pokes, but he did not stir. I must be
patient. Precious things were slow of growth.

Full as my mind and heart were of thoughts and hopes too big for
expression, my behavior was so nearly normal that no troublesome
questions were propounded. I had no difficulty in keeping my secret.
Imaginative children have more secrets to guard than adults ever think
of harboring.

I took Frank to bed with me, smuggling him under my pillow, and going to
sleep with my hand on him. He was getting warmer every hour.

At midnight a cry--a series of cries--aroused the slumbering household,
and drew my father and mother to my room. I had been awakened from sleep
too sound for dreams by the bite of sharp teeth upon the thick of my
thumb. Even the certainty that Frank had evolved a mouth, and that it
was in good working order, could not cheat me into forgetfulness of the
terror and pain of that awakening. I jerked my hand from under the
pillow and shook Something off upon the floor. I heard it fall, and I
heard it run. Frankenstein could not have conceived more intense horror
and loathing for his foul, misshapen offspring than overpowered me at
that terrible instant. The light in my father's hand showed blood
streaming from my thumb and dripping upon the coverlet.

"A mouse, or maybe a young rat, has bitten her," my mother pronounced
without hesitation. "And no wonder! See how greasy her hand is! Faugh!
How very careless in Chloe to put the child to bed in such a state! Be
quiet, Molly! This should be a lesson to you not to go to bed again
without washing your hands. You are old enough to think of such things
for yourself. My dear child, can't you stop crying? It is not like you
to make so much noise over a little hurt."

"She is frightened out of her senses," said my father. "And you must
admit that it was rather startling to be aroused by feeling a mouse's
teeth nibbling at her hand."

I clung to his neck, shivering with fright and cold. My sobs were
uncontrollable.

"It wasn't a mo-use!" I got out, presently. "Nor a ra-at, either!"

"Not a mouse or a rat! How do you know? Did you see it?"

"It was Fra-a-nk!" I gulped. "Oh! I'm afraid to stay here! He is in
the room somewhere! He will come after me again!"

The scene was ended by my going in my father's arms to my mother's bed
for the rest of the night. My mother stayed upstairs with Mary 'Liza.

"But I did not sleep well," was her grieved report at breakfast. "The
pillows smelled horribly of sausage, I suppose because Molly's hands
were so greasy. Marthy! see that the pillow-cases are changed this
morning."

Before Marthy got upstairs, I mustered and dragooned sufficient courage
to enable me to visit the room. Still trembling and full of loathing at
what I must see, I turned over the pillow. The red flannel was
there--and the raw cotton--and inside of all, IT--Frank no longer--as
cold as a stone!

I took it up with the tongs and threw it out of the window--and said
never a word about it to anybody.

[Illustration]




Chapter XII

My Prize Beet


[Illustration]

I had been seven years old for so long that I alluded to myself
habitually as "almost eight." We had our governess now, Miss Davidson, a
handsome, amiable, and somewhat sentimental Bostonian recommended by a
Richmond friend of my father. Four other girls studied with us. Two of
them, Paulina and Sarah Hobson, were our second cousins. They stayed at
our house from Monday morning until Friday evening, going home for
Sunday, unless the weather were bad. Madeline and Rosa Pemberton were
day scholars, the Pemberton plantation adjoining ours.

I was the youngest of the six, and while I fancy that I was rather a
favorite with Miss Davidson, I endured much from the girls on account of
my inferiority in age, as well as because of my "old-fashioned,
conceited ways." That was one reason I spoke of being almost eight. I
was trying to grow up to what they complained of as "getting above"
myself.

The frank brutality of school children of both sexes, as contrasted with
the unselfish forbearance (or the show of it) and the suave courtesy of
well-bred men and women, is an instructive study in the evolution of
ethics. The youngest boy or girl in class or college is the weakest wolf
in the pack, the under dog in the fight. I had all of a little girl's
natural desire for new playfellows and the dreamer's passion for more
material for castle-building. The prospect of "the school" was
ravishing. I constructed scenes and rehearsed conversations, with the
cast of coming actors, until the quartette must have been super-or
sub-human, had they come up to one tithe of my requirements.

In plain and very homely fact, they were four commonplace, provincial
girls of average natural intelligence, in age varying from twelve to
fourteen. They studied because they would be called upon to recite, and
recited fairly well for fear of reproof and bad marks should they be
derelict. Out of school, books and bookish thoughts were cast to the
four winds of heaven. Their talk was cheery chatter, as brainless as the
rattle of grasshoppers in the summer grass.

Mary 'Liza towered above them in scholastic attainments, although the
junior of the youngest of them, keeping at the head of every class with
unostentatious ease. I am afraid that I may have done my orphaned cousin
seeming injustice in former chapters of this autobiography. Her temper
was even, and her nature was finer than her prim, priggish ways would
have led the casual acquaintance to suppose. She was
ultra-conscientious, and naturally so exemplary that her good behavior
was a snare. She could not sympathize with my temptations to naughtiness
and many falls from good-girlhood. I mention this to introduce what was
a surprise to me at the time. She never joined in the persecutions of me
that were the labor and the pastime of the other girls. It would have
been asking too much to expect her to champion me openly. I was
affectionately grateful to her for holding herself aloof when baiting me
was the amusement of the hour.

My mother had lamented that I took life so much to heart. It took itself
to my heart now, uninvited. I was headstrong and headlong, hot in love,
and honest in hatred; with a brain full of absurd fancies, all of which
were beloved by their author. I had browsed at will in my father's
library, poring by the hour over books twenty years too old for me, yet,
by mental cuticular absorption, taking in and assimilating much that
contributed to the formation of taste and character. My familiar use of
language that sounded pedantic because I got it from books, my frequent
references to characters I had known in print, were gibberish and
vanity of vanities to my new associates. My very plays were
unintelligible to girls who had never heard of William Wallace, and
Robert Bruce, and Thaddeus of Warsaw, or read, on Sunday afternoons, of
Tobias and the Angel, Judith and Holofernes, and Christiana and her
children.

Not one of the four had an intellectual ambition. Mary 'Liza's
scholarship did not excite their envy because she was quiet and
inoffensive. Proficiency in her studies was "one of her ways." I was
talkative and aggressive, and needed taking down. They set themselves
systematically about the performance of the duty. The work was done
deftly and discreetly, out of the sight and hearing of our elders. Young
and raw as I was, I was too wise to tell tales on them. By the time I
was four years old that lesson was rubbed into my consciousness by the
gruesome rhyme:--

   "Tell-tale tit!
   Your tongue shall be slit,
   And every dog in our town
   Shall have a little bit!"

This apparently tedious preamble yet leads by an air-line to the first
Agricultural Fair ever held at Powhatan Court House. The date was
October fifteenth, and all the gentlemen and ladies in the county were
entreated to send exhibits of plantation products and feminine
handiwork. Enthusiasm ran from homestead to homestead with the speed and
heat of a March fire in pine woods. Cattle, tobacco, grain, vegetables,
fruit, flowers, bedquilts, poultry, bees, knitting,
embroideries,--nothing was talked of but the finest specimens of these
that would be "in strong and beauteous order ranged," upon the important
day.

Madeline Pemberton had "done" a chair-cover in cross-stitch that her
mother said ought to get the first prize, and was dead sure to take the
third; Mary 'Liza was knitting a pair of shell-pattern, openwork
stockings as fine as a cobweb, in which there would not be a knot or a
dropped stitch, and Paulina Hobson was putting her eyes out over a
linen-cambric handkerchief under Miss Davidson's direction. Fine sewing
and embroidery were taught by governesses then. Sarah Hobson had pieced
a crib quilt containing one thousand and twelve tiny squares. I was
supposed to be left out in the cold. I would not knit, and to sew I was
ashamed because I did it so badly. Nobody paid any attention to me when
comparing notes and queries touching the great show.

Yet I nursed an ambition of my own to which no one was privy except
Spotswoode, a gray-headed, and proverbially taciturn field-hand, without
whose knowledge and coöperation the purpose could not have been carried
out.

Wandering, one July afternoon, on the outskirts of a corn-field--the
same in which I once lost Musidora--I happened upon a "volunteer"
mangel-wurzel beet that had sprung up in a fence corner, a quarter of a
mile away from any of its kindred. Attracted by the beauty of the
translucent, red-veined leaves, I called to Spotswoode who was ploughing
between the corn rows, and asked him what it was. Adopting the waif,
then and there, I dug what I called "my little garden" about it,
Spotswoode tugging up the stoutest roots and clearing out the
wire-grass. With an occasional hand's turn and toss from him I
cultivated the vagrant into extraordinary size and vigor. Not a day
passed in which I did not visit it. Not a blade of grass or a weed was
allowed to invade the charmed circle, and many a spadeful of fresh
mould, black with fatness, was worked about the swelling tuber by my
kind field-hand. He knew that it was to be sent to the Fair in the
fulness of time, and believed with me that "not another beet there could
hold a candle to it."

As the air thickened and heated with rumors of the prodigies to be
revealed on the fifteenth to the lasting honor of Old Powhatan, it was
harder and harder to keep what I knew to myself. I had purposed not to
reveal the secret until my father's wagons were in loading with other
mammoth esculents and his finest corn and tobacco. Then--so ran the
programme--I would march up, bearing my beet with me. It was to be dug
up and cleaned by Spotswoode on the evening of the fourteenth, and kept
safely in hiding for me. I could depend upon his literal obedience,
albeit he never had an original idea.

Temptation befell, and overcame me, on the afternoon of October
thirteenth, a date I was not likely, thenceforward, to forget. All six
of us girls were gathered in the porch, listening to, and relating,
stories of what this one had raised, and that one had made. Mr.
Pemberton had a seven-hundred-pound pig, and Mr. Hobson a rooster more
beautiful than a bird of Paradise. The syrup of Mrs. Hobson's preserves
was as clear as spring water, and Mrs. Pemberton's water melon-rind
sweetmeats had as good as taken the prize.

Paulina Hobson sat on the top step of the porch. She was very fair, and
her hair was nearly as white as her skin. She was fourteen years old,
and wore a grass-green lawn frock. Her eyes were of a paler green, she
had a nasty laugh, and her teeth were not good.

"Isn't it nice that all five of us are going to send something?" she
said complacently. "You know that nobody but exhibitors can go into the
tent for the first hour--from eleven to twelve--so's they can see
everything before the crowd gets in. Who'll you stay with, Miss Molly
Mumchance, when we all leave you?"

I had not spoken while the talk went on, for fear something might slip
out and betray me, prematurely, but I took fire at this.

"I'm going in, myself!" I snapped out.

"Oh, you are? What are you going to exhibit, may we ask?" with her nasty
laugh.

"The biggest beet in the world! It measures a yard around."

"Hoo! hoo! hoo!" squealed Paulina so loudly that my father, who was
coming in the gate with my mother, Miss Davidson, Uncle Carter, and Aunt
Eliza, said pleasantly:--

"What is the joke, young ladies? Mayn't we laugh, too?"

Madeline Pemberton answered. Miss Davidson had to reprove her every day
for forwardness.

"Why, Mr. Burwell,"--laughing with affected violence,--"Molly says she
is going to send some beets to the Fair that measure ever so many yards
around."

"I didn't!" cried I, in a passion. "You know that isn't true!"

My father moved toward me.

"What did you say, daughter?"

I hung my head. If I told, where would be the surprise and the visioned
triumph?

"What did you say, Molly?" repeated my father, in quiet gravity.

"I said one beet, and that it measured one yard," stammered I,
reluctantly.

"That was bad enough. When so many older people are trying to see who
can tell the biggest story, little girls ought to be especially
careful."

His eyes did not go to Madeline, but his emphasis did. The thought of
being classed with her lent me coherence and courage. I looked up.

"I have one beet, father, that is a yard 'round. I raised it myself. If
you don't believe me, you can ask Spotswoode."

"I don't ask my servants if my daughter is telling the truth. Where is
your beet?"

I pointed.

"Away over yonder--the other side of the corn-field."

Paulina and Rosa tittered, Madeline giggled,--then all three pretended
to smother the demonstration with their handkerchiefs and behind their
hands. Mary 'Liza looked scared and sorry. My father took hold of my
hand.

"Take me to see it!"

The others fell into Indian file behind us, as we marched outside of
the garden fence and past the Old Orchard where the rays of the sinking
sun shot horizontal shafts under the trees to our very feet, and so to
the corn-field. I did not glance behind to see who entered it after us,
but pushed right ahead between the stalks, the stiff blades switching my
cheeks. When we neared the "garden," I ran forward, flushed and
impatient, not to display my prize, but to clear myself by proving my
words. An envious, jagged blade slashed my forehead as I tore by. I did
not feel it at the moment, or for half an hour after it began to bleed.

For--the beet was gone!

The cleared space was there to show where something had been cultivated;
the bare earth was raked level. Not so much as the hole from which my
beet had been ravished remained in circumstantial evidence. The rest of
the party arrived while I stood transfixed, the picture of detected
guilt. To the rustle of the corn, and the shuffle of feet over the
furrows succeeded a horrible hush. Then, a chorus of mocking girlish
cackles, led by Paulina Hobson's discordant screech, smote the sunset
air and covered me with a pall of infamy. Paulina caught at the fence
for support as she laughed; Madeline bent double and reeled sideways.

I clutched my father's hand, drowning and suffocating in the waves of
despairing agony; I shook my tight fist at the insulting quartette.

"They--they--took it! It was here this morning. It was here just after
dinner to-day!"

"Be quiet, girls!" ordered my judge-advocate. "Molly! I want the exact
truth. If you accuse them, you must prove what you say. Things have gone
too far to stop here. Didn't you say that Spotswoode knew something
about the affair?"

"He knows all about it. He helped me, ever so many times, and he saw how
big it was," I ejaculated vehemently.

"We shall probably find him at the stables, feeding the horses."

Back we trudged by my air-line, well-worn but narrow. I fancy that my
father took note of my familiarity with the path, but he did not speak
of it. I marched in front of him, gloomy and desperate. Some of the
others talked low as they straggled along. The girls kept up a hissing
whispering, for which I hated them with my whole soul. I think that my
mother and Miss Davidson shed some furtive tears, for my case was black,
and they were tender-hearted.

Spotswoode was looking after his plough-horses, as my father had
conjectured. At his master's shout, he emerged from the stalls and
presented himself in the stable door. Ungainly, dirty, bare-footed, his
ragged wool hat on the back of his unkempt woolly poll, his jaw dropping
in idiotic amazement at sight of the party--he was a ludicrous figure in
the bath of late sunshine that brought out every uncomely item of the
picture. Preoccupied and distraught as I was, I saw how the dust from
the stable floor floated in golden clouds to the cobwebbed rafters, as
the sun struck past the man in the doorway and glorified the murky
interior.

I rushed through the yard, heedless of manure heaps, and young pigs and
calves scattered by my impetuous approach.

"Oh, Spotswoode!" in a voice that cracked and went to pieces as I ran,
"somebody has stolen my beet! You can tell father--"

A hot valve closed in my windpipe and shut out the rest.

Spotswoode's jaw hung more loosely; his eyes were utterly vacant.

"Ya-as, little Mistis!" he drawled, and slunk back into the stable.

"What do you mean, sir? Come back here, this minute!" called his master.

When he reappeared, he carried in both hands, extended, after the
similitude of a pre-historic monkey making a votive offering--something
dark-red and pot-bellied, and more immense than I had dreamed it could
look. A cluster of cropped leaves crowned it, a taper root, a foot
long, depended from the bottom.

"I done been dig it up fo' you an' wash it, dis ebenin', 'stid o'
termorrer," drawled my vindicator. "So's ter hab it all ready fur the
Fyar."

Mute and triumphant, I received it in a rapturous embrace, set it on a
bench by the stable door, and passed the hem of my muslin apron about
it. The ends just met.

