docta must have gone straight and told her what we 
said." 
" He had no right to," said Clementina, but neither 
of them was displeased, and after it was over, Mrs. 
Lander said that any one would have thought the call 
was for her, instead of Clementina, from the way Miss 
Milray kept talking to her. She formed a high opin 
ion of her; and Miss Milray put Clementina in mind 
of Mr. Milray ; she had the same hair of chiseled sil 
ver, and the same smile; she moved like him, and 
talked like him ; but with a greater liveliness. She 
asked fondly after him, and made Clementina tell her 
if he seemed quite well, and in good spirits; she was 
civilly interested in Mrs. Milray 's health. At the 
embarrassment which showed itself in the girl, she 
laughed and said, " Don 't imagine I don 't know all 
about it, Miss Claxon ! My sister-in-law has owned 
up very handsomely ; she isn 't half bad, as the English 
say, and I think she likes owning up if she can do it 
safely." 
" And you don 't think," asked Mrs. Lander, " that 
Clementina done wrong to dance that way ? " 
Clementina blushed, and Miss Milray laughed again. 
" If you 'll let Miss Claxon come to a little party I 'm 
giving she may do her dance at my house ; but she 
shain 't be obliged to do it, or anything she doesn 't 
like. Don 't say she hasn 't a gown ready, or some 
thing of that kind ! You don 't know the resources of 
Florence, and how the dress makers here doat upon 
doing impossible things in no time at all, and being 
ready before they promise. If you 'll put Miss Claxon 
 
in my hands, I 'll see that she 's dressed for my dance. 
I live out on one of the hills over there, that you see 
from your windows" she nodded toward them " in 
a beautiful villa, too cold for winter, and too hot for 
summer, but I think Miss Claxon can endure its dis 
comfort for a day, if you can spare her, and she will 
consent to leave you to the tender mercies of your 
maid, and" 
Miss Milray paused at the kind of unresponsive 
blank to which she found herself talking, and put up 
her lorgnette, to glance from Mrs. Lander to Clemen 
tina. The girl said, with embarrassment, " I don 't 
think I ought to leave Mrs. Landa, just now. She 
isn 't very well, and I shouldn 't like to leave her 
alone." 
"But we 're just as much obliged to you as if she 
could come," Mrs. Lander interrupted ; " and later on, 
maybe she can. You see, we hain 't got any maid, 
yit. Well, we did have one at Woodlake, but she 
made us do so many things for her, that we thought 
we should like to do a few things for ouaselves, 
awhile." 
If Miss Milray perhaps did not conceive the situa 
tion, exactly, she said, Oh, they were quite right in 
that ; but she might count upon Miss Claxon for her 
dance, might not she ; and might not she do anything 
in her power for them ? She rose to go, but Mrs. 
Lander took her at her word, so far as to say, Why, 
yes, if she could tell Clementina the best place to get 
a dress she guessed the child would be glad enough 
to come to the dance. 
 
"Tell her!" Miss Milray cried. "I 'll take her! 
Put on your hat, my dear," she said to Clementina, 
" and come with me now. My carriage is at your 
door." 
Clementina looked at Mrs. Lander, who said, " Go, 
of cou se, child. I wish I could go, too." 
" Do come, too," Miss Milray entreated. 
" No, no," said Mrs. Lander, nattered. " I ain 't 
feeling very well, to-day. I guess I 'm better off at 
home. But don 't you hurry back on my account, 
Clementina." While the girl was gone to put on her 
hat she talked on about her. " She 's the best gul in 
the wo ld, and she won 't be one of the poorest ; and 
I shall feel that I 'm doin just what Mr. Landa would 
have wanted I should. He picked her out himself, moa 
than three yea 's ago, when we was drivin past her 
house at Middlemount, and it was to humor him afta 
he was gone, moa than anything else, that I took her. 
Well, she wain 't so very easy to git, either, I can tell 
you." She cut short her history of the affair to say 
when Clementina came back, " I want you should do 
the odderin yourself, Miss Milray, and not let her 
scrimp with the money. She wants to git some vis- 
itin cahds ; and if you miss anything about her that 
she'd ought to have, or that any otha young lady 's 
got, won 't you just git it for her? " 
XXI. 
As soon as she imagined the case, Miss Milray set 
herself to overcome Mrs. Lander 's reluctance from a 
maid. She prevailed with her to try the Italian wo 
man whom she sent her, and in a day the genial Mad- 
dalena had effaced the whole tradition of the bleak 
Ellida. It was not essential to the understanding 
which instantly established itself between them that 
they should have any language in common. They 
babbled at each other, Mrs. Lander in her Bostonized 
Yankee, and Maddalena in her gutteral Florentine, and 
Mrs. Lander was flattered to find how well she knew 
Italian. 
Miss Milray had begun being nice to Clementina in 
fealty to her brother, who so seldom made any proof 
of her devotion to him, and to whom she had remained 
passionately true through his shady past. She was 
eager to humor his whim for the little country girl 
who had taken his fancy, because it was his whim, 
and not because she had any hopes that Clementina 
would justify it. She had made Dr. Welwright tell 
her all he knew about her, and his report of her grace 
\md beauty had piqued her curiosity ; his account of 
 
the forlorn dullness of her life with Mrs. Lander in 
their hotel had touched her heart. But she was still 
skeptical when she went to get her letter of introduc 
tion ; when she brought Clementina home from the 
dressmaker 's she asked if she might kiss her, and said 
she was already in love with her. 
Her love might have made her wish to do every 
thing for her that she now began to do, but it sim 
plified the situation to account for her to the world as 
the ward of Mrs. Lander, who was as rich as she was 
vulgar, and it was with Clementina in this character 
that Miss Milray began to make the round of after 
noon teas, and inspired invitations for her at pleasant 
houses, by giving a young ladies lunch for her at her 
own. Before the night of her little dance, she had lost 
any misgiving she had felt at first, in the delight of 
seeing Clementina take the world as if she had thought 
it would always behave as amiably as that, and as if 
she had forgotten her unkind experiences to the con 
trary. She knew from Mrs. Lander how the girls at 
their hotel had left her out, but Miss Milray could not 
see that Clementina met them with rancor, when her 
authority brought them together. If the child was 
humiliated by her past in the gross lonely luxury of 
Mrs. Lander 's life or the unconscious poverty of her 
own home, she did not show it in the presence of 
the world that now opened its arms to her. She 
remained so tranquil in the midst of all the novel dif 
ferences, that it made her friend feel rather vulgar in 
her anxieties for her, and it was not always enough to 
find that she had not gone wrong simply because she 
 
had held still, and had the gift of waiting for things 
to happen. Sometimes when Miss Milray had almost 
decided that her passivity was the calm of a savage, 
she betrayed so sweet and grateful a sense of all that 
was done for her, that her benefactress decided that 
she was not rustic, but was sylvan in a way of her 
own, and not so much ignorant as innocent. She 
discovered that she was not ignorant even of books, 
but with no literary effect from them she had trans 
mitted her reading into the substance of her native 
gentleness, and had both ideas and convictions. 
When Clementina most affected her as an untried 
wilderness in the conventional things she most felt 
her equality to any social fortune that might befall 
her, and then she would have liked to see her married 
to a title, and taking the glory of this world with an 
unconsciousness that experience would never wholly 
penetrate. But then again she felt that this would be 
somehow a profanation, and she wanted to pack her 
up and get her back to Middlemount before anything 
of the kind should happen. She gave Milray these 
impressions of Clementina in the letter she wrote to 
thank him for her, and to scold him for sending the 
girl to her. She accused him of wishing to get off 
on her a riddle which he could not read himself ; but 
she owned that the charm of Clementina 's mystery 
was worth a thousand times the fatigue of trying to 
guess her out and that she was more and more infatu 
ated with her every day. 
In the meantime, Miss Milray 's little dance grew 
upon her till it became a very large one that filled her 
 
villa to overflowing when the time came for it. She 
lived on one of the fine avenues of the Oltrarno 're 
gion, laid out in the brief period of prosperity which 
Florence enjoyed as the capital of Italy. The villa 
was built at that time, and it was much newer than 
the house on Seventeenth street in New York, where 
she spent the girlhood that had since prolonged itself 
beyond middle life with her. She had first lived 
abroad in the Paris of the Second Empire, and she 
had been one winter in Rome, but she had settled def 
initely in Florence before London became an Ameri 
can colony, so that her friends were chiefly Americans, 
though she had a wide international acquaintance. 
Perhaps her habit of taking her brother 's part, when 
he was a black sheep, inclined her to mercy with peo 
ple who had not been so blameless in their morals as 
they were in their minds and manners. She exacted 
that they should be interesting and agreeable, and 
not too threadbare ; but if they had something that 
decently buttoned over the frayed places, she did not 
frown upon their poverty. Bohemians of all kinds 
liked her ; Philistines liked her too; and in such a 
place as Florence, where the Philistines themselves 
are a little Bohemian, she might be said to be very 
popular. You met persons whom you did not quite 
wish to meet at her house, but if these did not meet 
you there, it was your loss. 
On the night of the dance the line of private carri 
ages, remises and cabs, lined the Viale Ariosto for a 
mile up and down before her gates, where young art 
ists of both sexes arrived on foot. By this time her 
passion for Clementina was at its height. She had 
Maddalena bring her out early in the evening, and 
made her dress under her own eye and her French 
maid s, while Maddalena went back to comfort Mrs. 
Lander. 
" I hated to leave her," said Clementina. " I don 't 
believe she 's very well." 
"Isn 't she always ill?" demanded Miss Milray. 
She embraced the girl again, as if once were not 
enough. " Clementina, if Mrs. Lander won 't give you 
to me, I 'm going to steal you. Do you know what I 
want you to do to-night ? I want you to stand up 
with me, and receive, till the dancing begins, as if it 
were your coming-out. I mean to introduce every 
body to you. You 'll be easily the prettiest girl, 
there, and you 'll have the nicest gown, and I don 't 
mean that any of your charms shall be thrown away. 
You won 't be frightened ? " 
" No, I don 't believe I shall," said Clementina. 
" You can tell me what to do." 
The dress she wore was of pale green, like the light 
seen in thin woods; out of it shone her white shoul 
ders, and her young face, as if rising through the 
verdurous light. The artists, to a man and woman, 
wished to paint her, and severally told her so, during 
the evening which lasted till morning. She was not 
surprised when Lord Lioncourt appeared, toward 
midnight, and astonished Miss Milray by claiming 
acquaintance with Clementina. He asked about Mrs. 
Lander, and whether she had got to Florence without 
losing the way ; he laughed but he seemed really to 
care. lie took Clementina out to supper, when the 
time came; and she would have topped him by half a 
head as she leaned on his arm, if she had not consid 
erately drooped and trailed a little after him. 
She could not know what a triumph he was making 
for her ; and it was merely part of the magic of the 
time that Mr. Ewins should come in presently with 
one of the ladies, lie had arrived in Florence that 
day, and had to be brought unasked. He put on the 
effect of an old friend with her ; but Clementina 's 
curiosity was chiefly taken with a tall American, whom 
she thought very handsome. His light yellow hair 
was brushed smooth across his forehead like a \vell- 
behaving boy 's ; he was dressed like the other men, 
but he seemed not quite happy in his evening coat, 
and his gloves which he smote together uneasily from 
O O J 
time to time. He appeared to think that somehow 
the radiant Clementina would know how he felt; he 
did not dance, and he professed to have found him 
self at the party by a species of accident. He told 
her that he was out in Europe looking after a patent 
right that he had just taken hold of, and was having 
only a middling good time. He pretended surprise 
to hear her say that she was having a first-rate time, 
and he tried to reason her out of it. He confessed 
that from the moment he came into the room he 
had made up his mind to take her to supper, and 
had never been so disgusted in his life as when he 
O 
saw that little lord toddling off with her, and trying 
to look as large as life. He asked her what a lord 
was like, anyway, and he made her laugh all the time. 
 
He told her his name, G. W. Hinkle, and asked 
whether she would be likely to remember it if they 
ever met again. 
Another man who interested her very much was a 
young Russian, with curling hair and neat, small feat 
ures who spoke better English than she did, and said 
he was going to be a writer, but had not yet decided 
whether to write in Russian or French ; she sup 
posed he had wanted her advice, but he did not wait 
for it, or seem to expect it. He was very much 
in earnest, while he fanned her, and his earnestness 
amused her as much as the American 's irony. He 
asked which city of America she came from, and 
when she said none, he asked which part of America. 
She answered New England, and he said, " Oh, yes, 
that is where they have the conscience." She did not 
know what he meant, and he put before her the ideal 
of New England girlhood which he had evolved from 
reading American novels. " Are you like that ? " he 
demanded. 
She laughed, and said, " Not a bit," and asked him 
if he had ever met such an American girl, and he said, 
frankly, No ; the American girls were all mercenary, 
and cared for nothing but money, or marrying titles. 
He added that he had a title, but he would not wear it. 
Clementina said she did not believe she cared for 
titles, and then he said, " But you care for money." 
She denied it, but as if she had confessed it, he went 
on : " The only American that I have seen with that 
conscience was a man. I will tell you of him, if you 
wish." 
 
He did not wait for her answer. " It was in Naples 
at Pompeii. I saw at the first glance that he was 
different from other Americans, and I resolved to 
know him. He was there in company with a stupid 
boy, whose tutor he was ; and he told me that he was 
studying to be a minister of the Protestant church. 
Next year he will go home to be consecrated. He 
promised to pass through Florence in the spring, and 
he will keep his word. Every act, every word, every 
thought of his is regulated by conscience. It is ter 
rible, but it is beautiful." All the time, the Russian 
was fanning Clementina, with every outward appear 
ance of flirtation. " Will you dance again ? No ? I 
should like to draw such a character as his in a ro- 
XXII. 
IT was six o clock in the morning before Miss Mil- 
ray sent Clementina home in her carriage. She would 
have kept her to breakfast, but Clementina said she 
ought to go on Mrs. Lander 's account, and she wished 
to go on her own. 
She thought she would steal to bed without waking 
her, but she was stopped by the sound of groans 
when she entered their apartment ; the light gushed 
from Mrs. Lander 's door. Maddalena came out, and 
blessed the name of her Latin deity (so much more 
familiar and approachable than the Anglo-Saxon di 
vinity) that Clementina had come at last, and poured 
upon her the story of a night of suffering for Mrs. 
Lander. Through her story came the sound of Mrs. 
Lander 's voice plaintively reproachful, summoning 
Clementina to her bedside. " Oh, how could you go 
away and leave me ? I 've  been in such misery the 
whole night long, and the docta didn 't do a thing for 
me. I 'm puffectly wolin out, and I couldn 't make 
my wants known with that Italian crazy-head. If it 
hadn 't been for the portyary comin in and interpret- 
in , when the docta left, I don 't know what I should 
 
have done. I want you should give him a twenty- 
leary note just as quick as you see him ; and oh, isn 't 
the docta comin ? " 
Clementina set about helping Maddalena put the 
room, which was in an impassioned disorder, to 
rights ; and she made Mrs. Lander a cup of her own 
tea, which she had brought from S. S. Pierce 's in 
passing through Boston ; it was the first thing, the 
sufferer said, that had saved her life. Clementina 
comforted her, and promised her that the doctor 
should be there very soon ; and before Mrs. Lander 
fell away to sleep, she was so far out of danger as to 
be able to ask how Clementina had enjoyed herself, 
and to be glad that she had such a good time. 
The doctor would not wake her when he came; he 
said that she had been through a pretty sharp gastric 
attack, which would not recur, if she ate less of the 
most unwholesome things she could get, and went 
more into the air, and walked a little. He did not 
seem alarmed, and he made Clementina tell him about 
the dance, which he had been called from to Mrs. 
Lander 's bed of pain. He joked her for not having 
missed him ; in the midst of their fun, she caught her 
self in the act of yawning, and the doctor laughed, 
and went away. 
Maddalena had to call her, just before dinner, when 
Mrs. Lander had been awake long enough to have sent 
for the doctor to explain the sort of gone feeling 
which she was now the victim of. It proved, when 
he came, to be hunger, and he prescribed tea and 
toast and a small bit of steak. Before he came she 
 
had wished to arrange for going home at once, and 
dying in her own country. But his opinion so far 
prevailed with her that she consented not to telegraph 
for berths. " I presume," she said, " it 'll do, any 
time before the icebugs begin to run. But I'd know, 
afta this, Clementina, as I can let you leave me quite 
as you be n doin . There was a lot of flowas come for 
you, this aftanoon, but I made Maddaleua put em on 
the balcony, for I don 't want you should get poisoned 
with em in your sleep; I always hea'd they was dan 
gerous in a person 's bed room. I'd know as they 
are, eitha." 
Maddalena seemed to know that Mrs. Lander was 
speaking of the flowers. She got them and gave them 
to Clementina, who found they were from some of 
the men she had danced with. Mr. Hinkle had sent 
a vast bunch of violets, which presently began to give 
out their sweetness in the warmth of the room, and 
the odor brought him before her with his yellow hair, 
scrupulously parted at the side, and smoothly brush 
ed, showing his forehead very high up. Most of the 
gentlemen wore their hair parted in the middle, or 
falling in a fringe over their brows ; the Russian 's was 
too curly to part, and Lord Lioncourt had none ex 
cept at the sides. 
She laughed, and Mrs. Lander said, " Tell about it, 
Clementina," and she began with Mr. Hinkle, and 
kept coming back to him from the others. Mrs. Lan 
der wished most to know how that lord had got down 
to Florence; and Clementina told her that he had 
said he was coming to see her. 
" "Well, I hope to goodness he won 't come to-day, 
ain 't fit to see anybody." 
" Oh, I guess he won 't come till to-morrow," said 
Clementina; she repeated some of the compliments 
she had got, and she told of all Miss Milray 's kind 
ness to her, but Mrs. Lander said, " Well, the next 
time, I 'll thank her not to keep you so late." She 
was astonished to hear that Mr. Ewins was there, and 
" Any of the nasty things out of the hotel the e ? " 
she asked. 
" Yes," Clementina said, " the e we e, and some of 
them we e very nice. They wanted to know if I 
wouldn 't join them, and have an aftanoon of our own 
here in the hotel, so that people could come to us all 
at once." 
She went back to the party, and described the rest 
of it. When she came to the part about the Russian, 
she told what he had said of American girls being 
fond of money, and wanting to marry foreign noble 
men. 
Mrs. Lander said, " Well, I hope you ain 't a going 
to get married in a hurry, anyway, and when you do 
I hope you 'll pick out a nice American." 
" Oh, yes," said Clementina. 
Mrs. Lander had their dinner brought to their 
apartment. She cheered up, and she was in some 
danger of eating too much, but with Clementina 's 
help she denied herself. Their short evening was one 
of the gayest ; Clementina declared she was not the 
least sleepy, but she went to bed at nine, and slept 
till nine the next day. 
 
Mrs. Lander, the doctor confessed, the second 
morning, was more shaken up by her little attack 
than he had expected ; but she decided to see the gen 
tleman who had asked to call on Clementina. Lord 
Lioncourt did not come quite so soon as she was 
afraid he might, and when he came he talked mostly 
to Clementina. He did not get to Mrs. Lander until 
just before he was going. She hospitably asked him 
what his hurry was, and then he said that he was off 
for Rome, that evening at seven. He was nice about 
hoping she was comfortable in the hotel, and he sym 
pathized with her in her wish that there was a set- 
bowl in her room ; she told him that she always tried 
to have one, and he agreed that it must be very con 
venient where any one was, as she said, sick so much. 
Mr. Hinkle came a day later ; and then it appeared 
that he had a mother whose complaints almost exactly 
matched Mrs. Lander s. He had her photograph with 
him, and showed it ; he said if you had no wife to 
carry round a photograph of, you had better carry 
your mother 's ; and Mrs. Lander praised him for being 
a good son. A good son, she added, always made a 
good husband ; and he said that was just what he told 
the young ladies himself, but it did not seem to make 
much impression on them. He kept Clementina 
laughing; and he pretended that he was going to 
bring a diagram of his patent right for her to see, 
because she would be interested in a gleaner like 
that ; and he said he wished her father could see it, 
for it would be sure to interest the kind of man Mrs. 
Lander described him to be. " I 'll be along up there 
 
just about the time you get home, Miss Clementina. 
When did you say it would be ? " 
" I don 't know ; pretty ea ly in the spring, I 
guess." 
She looked at Mrs. Lander, who said, " Well, it 
depends upon how I git up my health. I couldn 't 
bea the voyage now." 
Mr. Hinkle said, " No, best look out for your 
health, if it takes all summer. I shouldn 't want you 
to hurry on my account. Your time is my time. All 
I want is for Miss Clementina, here, to personally 
conduct me to her father. If I could get him to 
take hold of my gleaner in New England, we could 
make the blueberry crop worth twice what it is." 
Mrs. Lander perceived that he was joking ; and 
she asked what he wanted to run away for when the 
young Russian 's card came up. He said, " Oh, give 
every man a chance," and he promised that he would 
look in every few days, and see how she was getting 
along. He opened the door after he had gone out, 
and put his head in to say in confidence to Mrs. Lan 
der, but so loud that Clementina could hear, " I sup 
pose she 's told you who the belle of the ball was, the 
other night ? Went out to supper with a lord ! " 
He seemed to think a lord was such a good joke that 
if you mentioned one you had to laugh. 
The Russian 's card bore the name Baron Belsky, 
with the baron crossed out in pencil, and he began to 
attack in Mrs. Lander the demerits of the American 
character, as he had divined them. He instructed 
her that her countrymen existed chiefly to make 
 
money ; that they were more shopkeepers than the 
English and worse snobs ; that their women were triv 
ial and their men sordid ; that their ambition was to 
unite their families with the European aristocracies ; 
and their doctrine of liberty and equality was a shame 
less hypocrisy. This followed hard upon her asking, 
as she did very promptly, why he had scratched out 
the title on his card. He told her that he wished 
to be known solely as an artist, and he had to explain 
to her that he was not a painter, but was going to be 
a novelist. She taxed him with never having been 
in America, but he contended that as all America came 
to Europe he had the materials for a study of the 
national character at hand, without the trouble of 
crossing the ocean. In return she told him that she 
had not been the least sea-sick during the voyage, and 
that it was no trouble at all ; then he abruptly left her 
and went over to beg a cup of tea from Clementina, 
who sat behind the kettle by the window. 
" I have heard this morning from that American I 
met in Pompeii " he began. " He is coming north 
ward, and I am going down to meet him in Rome." 
Mrs. Lander caught the word, and called across the 
room, " Why, ain 't that whe e that lo'd 's gone ? " 
Clementina said yes, and while the kettle boiled, 
she asked if Baron Belsky were going soon. 
"Oh, in a week or ten days, perhaps. I shall know 
when he arrives. Then I shall go. We write to 
each other every day." He drew a letter from his 
breast pocket. " This will give you the idea of his 
character," and he read, " If we believe that the hand 
 
of God directs all our actions, how can we set up our 
theories of conduct against what we feel to be his 
inspiration ? " 
" What do you think of that ? " he demanded. 
"I don 't believe that God directs our wrong 
actions," said Clementina. 
" How ! Is there anything outside of God ? " 
" I don 't know whether there is or not. But there 
is something that tempts me to do wrong, sometimes, 
and I don 't believe that is God.  
The Russian seemed struck. " I will write that to 
him ! " 
" No," said Clementina, " I don 't want you to say 
anything about me to him." 
" No, no ! " said Baron Belsky, waving his hand 
reassuringly. " I would not mention your name ! " 
Mr. Ewins came in, and the Russian said he must 
go. Mrs. Lander tried to detain him, too, as she had 
tried to keep Mr. Hinkle, but he was inexorable. Mr. 
Ewins looked at the door when it had closed upon 
him. Mrs. Lander said, " That is one of the gentle 
men that Clementina met the otha night at the dance. 
He is a baron, but he scratches it out. You'd ought 
to hea'd him go on about Americans." 
" Yes," said Mr. Ewins coldly. " He 's at our hotel, 
and he airs his peculiar opinions at the table'd hote 
pretty freely. He 's a revolutionist of some kind, I 
fancy." He pronounced the epithet with an abhor 
rence befitting the citizen of a state born of revolution 
and a city that had cradled the revolt. " lie 's a Ni 
hilist, I believe." 
 
Mrs. Lander wished to know what that was, and he 
explained that it was a Russian who wanted to over 
throw the Czar, and set np a government of the people, 
when they were not prepared for liberty. 
" Then, maybe he isn 't a baron at all," said Mrs. 
Lander. 
" Oh, I believe he has a right to his title," Ewins 
answered. " It 's a German one." 
He said he thought that sort of man was all the 
more mischievous on account of his sincerity. He 
instanced a Russian whom a friend of his knew in 
Berlin, a man of rank like this fellow : he got to 
brooding upon the condition of working people and 
that kind of thing, till he renounced his title and for 
tune and went to work in an iron foundry. 
Mr. Ewins also spoke critically of Mrs. Milray. He 
had met her in Egypt ; but you soon exhausted the 
interest of that kind of woman. He professed a great 
concern that Clementina should see Florence in just 
the right way, and he offered his services in showing 
her the place. 
The Russian came the next day, and almost daily 
after that, in the interest with which Clementina 's 
novel difference from other American girls seemed to 
inspire him. His imagination had transmuted her 
simple Yankee facts into something appreciable to a 
Slav of his temperament. He conceived of her as the 
daughter of a peasant, whose beauty had charmed the 
widow of a rich citizen, and who was to inherit the 
wealth of her adoptive mother. He imagined that 
the adoption had taken place at a much earlier period 
 
than the time when Clementina 's visit to Mrs. Lander 
actually began, and that all which could be done had 
been done to efface her real character by indulgence 
and luxury. 
His curiosity concerning her childhood, her home, 
her father and mother, her brothers and sisters, and 
his misunderstanding of everything she told him, 
amused her. But she liked him, and she tried to 
give him some notion of the things he wished so much 
to know. It always ended in a dissatisfaction, more 
or less vehement, with the outcome of American con 
ditions as he conceived them. 
" But you," he urged one day, " you who are a 
daughter of the fields and woods, why should you for 
sake that pure life, and come to waste yourself here ? " 
" Why, don 't you think it 's very nice in Florence ? " 
she asked, with eyes of innocent interest. 
" Nice ! Nice ! Do we live for what is nice ? Is 
it enough that you have what you Americans^ lall a 
nice time ?" 
Clementina reflected. " I wasn 't doing much of 
anything at home, and I thought I might as well come 
with Mrs. Lander, if she wanted me so much." She 
thought in a certain way, that he was meddling with 
what was not his affair, but she believed that he was 
sincere in his zeal for the ideal life he wished her to 
lead, and there were some things she had heard about 
him that made her pity and respect him ; his self-exile 
and his renunciation of home and country for his prin 
ciples, whatever they were; she did not understand 
exactly. She would not have liked never being able 
 
to go back to Middlcmount, or to be cut off from all 
her friends as this poor young Nihilist was, and she 
said, now, " I didn 't expect that it was going to be 
anything but a visit, and I always supposed we should 
go back in the spring ; but now Mrs. Lander is be 
ginning to think she won 't be well enough till fall." 
"And why need you stay with her?" 
" Because she 's not very well," answered Clemen 
tina, and she smiled, a little triumphantly as well as 
tolerantly. 
" She could hire nurses and doctors, all she wants 
with her money." 
" I don 't believe it would be the same thing, exactly, 
and what should I do if I went back ? " 
"Do? Teach! Uplift the lives about you." 
" But you say it is better for people to live simply, 
and not read and think so much." 
" Then labor in the fields with them." 
Clementina laughed outright. " I guess if anyone 
saw r-&gt;e wo king in the fields they would think I was 
a disgrace to the neighbahood." 
Belsky gave her a stupified glare through his spec 
tacles. " I cannot undertand you Americans." 
" Well, you must come over to America, then, Mr. 
Belsky " he had asked her not to call him by his 
title " and then you would." 
" No, I could not endure the disappointment. You 
have the great opportunity of the earth. You could 
be equal and just, and simple and kind. There is 
nothing to hinder you. But all you try to do is to 
get more and more money." 
 
" Now, that isn 't faia, Mr. Belsky, and you know 
it." 
" Well, then, you joke, joke always joke. Like 
that Mr. Hinkle. He wants to make money with his 
patent of a gleaner, that will take the last grain of 
wheat from the poor, and he wants to joke joke ! 
Clementina said, " I won 't let you say that about 
Mr. Hinkle. You don 't know him, or you wouldn t. 
If he jokes, why shouldn 't he ? " 
Belsky made a gesture of rejection. " Oh, you are 
an American, too." 
She had not grown less American, certainly, since 
she had left home ; even the little conformities to 
Europe that she practiced were traits of Americanism. 
Clementina was not becoming sophisticated, but per 
haps she was becoming more conventionalized. The 
knowledge of good and evil in things that had all 
seemed indifferently good to her once, had crept upon 
her, and she distinguished in her actions. She sinned 
as little as any young lady in Florence against the 
superstitions of society; but though she would not 
now have done a skirt-dance before a shipful of peo 
ple, she did not afflict herself about her past errors. 
She put on the world, but she wore it simply and in 
most matters unconsciously. Some things were im 
parted to her without her asking or wishing, and 
merely in virtue of her youth and impressionability. 
She took them from her environment without know 
ing it, and in this way she was coming by an English 
manner and an English tone ; she was only the less 
American for being rather English without trying, 
 
when other Americans tried so hard. In the region 
of harsh nasals, Clementina had never spoken through 
her nose, and she was now as unaffected in these alien 
inflections as in the tender cooings which used to 
rouse the misgivings of her brother Jim. When she 
was with English people she employed them involun 
tarily, and when she was with Americans she measur 
ably lost them, so that after half an hour with Mr. 
Hinkle, she had scarcely a trace of them, and with 
Mrs. Lander she always spoke with her native accent. 
XXIII. 
ONE Sunday night, toward the end of Lent, Mrs. 
Lander had another of her attacks ; she now began to 
call them so as if she had established an ownership 
in them. It came on from her cumulative over-eating, 
again, but the doctor was not so smiling as he had 
been with regard to the first. Clementina had got 
ready to drive out to Miss Milray 's for one of her 
Sunday teas, but she put off her things, and prepared 
to spend the night at Mrs. Lander 's bedside. "Well, 
I should think you would want to," said the sufferer. 
" I 'm goin to do everything for you, and you'd ought 
to be willing to give up one of youa junketin 's for 
me. I 'm sure I don 't know what you see in em, 
an v way." 
" Oh, I am willing, Mrs. Lander; I 'm glad I hadn 't 
stahted before it began." Clementina busied herself 
with the pillows under Mrs. Lander 's dishevelled head, 
and the bedclothes disordered by her throes, while 
Mrs. Lander went on. 
" I don 't see what 's the use of so much gaddin , 
anyway. I don 't see as anything comes of it, but 
 
just to get a passal of worthless fellas afta you that 
think you a going to have money. There 's such a 
thing as two sides to everything, and if the favas is 
c;oin to be all on one side I guess there'd betta be a 
clear undastandin about it. I think I got a right to 
a little attention, as well as them that hain 't done 
anything ; and if I 'm goin to be left alone he e to 
die among strangers every time one of my attacks 
comes on " 
The doctor interposed, " I don 't think you 're going 
to have a very bad attack, this time, Mrs. Lander." 
" Oh, thank you, thank you, docta ! But you can 
undastand, can 't you, how I shall want to have some 
body around that can undastand a little English ? " 
The doctor said, " Oh yes. And Miss Claxon and 
I can understand a good deal, between us, and we 're 
going to stay, and see how a little morphine behaves 
with you." 
Mrs. Lander protested, " Oh, I can 't bea mo phine, 
docta." 
"Did you ever try it?" he asked, preparing his 
little instrument to imbibe the solution. 
" No ; but Mr. Landa did, and it most killed him ; 
it made him sick." 
" Well, you 're about as sick as you can be, now, 
Mrs. Lander, and if you don 't die of this pin-prick " 
he pushed the needle-point under the skin of her 
massive fore-arm " I guess you 'll live through it." 
She shrieked, but as the pain began to abate, she 
gathered courage, and broke forth joyfully. " Why, 
it 's beautiful, ain 't it ? T declare it wo ks like a cha m. 
 
Well, I shall always keep mo phine around after this, 
and when I feel one of these attacks comin on " 
"Send for a physician, Mrs. Lander," said Dr. 
Welwright, " and he 'll know what to do." 
"I ain 't so sure of that," returned Mrs. Lander 
fondly. " He would if you was the one. I declare I 
believe I could get up and walk right off, I feel so 
well." 
" That 's good. If you 'll take a walk day after to 
morrow it will help you a great deal more." 
"Well, I shall always say that you 've  saved my 
life, this time, doctor ; and Clementina she 's stood by, 
nobly ; I 'll say that for her." She twisted her big 
head round on the pillow to get sight of the girl. 
" I 'm all right, now ; and don 't you mind what I said. 
It 's just my misery talkin ; I don 't know what I did 
say ; I felt so bad. But I 'm fustrate, now, and I be 
lieve I could drop off to sleep, this minute. Why 
don 't you go to your tea? You can, just as well as 
not ! " 
" Oh, I don 't want to go, now, Mrs. Lander ; I'd 
rather stay." 
" But there ain 't any more danger now, is the e, 
docta ? " Mrs. Lander appealed. 
" No. There wasn 't any danger before. But when 
you 're quite yourself, I want to have a little talk with 
you, Mrs. Lander, about your diet. We must look 
after that." 
" Why, docta, that 's what I do do, now. I eat all 
the healthy things I lay my hands on, don 't I, Clem 
entina ? And hain 't you always at me about it ? " 
 
Clementina did not answer, and the doctor laughed. 
" Well, I should like to know what more I could do ! " 
" Perhaps you could do less. AVe 'll see about that. 
Better go to sleep, now, if you feel like it." 
" Well, I will, if you 'll make this silly child go to 
her tea. I 's pose she won 't because I scolded her. 
She 's an awful hand to lay anything up against you. 
You know you ah , Clementina ! But I can say this, 
