the class," she said, disconsolately. 

" Two years. You will be young then." 

"I wish you'd send me some money," she began, 
presently. " Why should Agnes have it all? And I do 
want a silk gown so." 





"I'll give you a silk gown, if that will make you 
hap})y." 

"O, that will be great! Two of the girls are going 
to have birthday parties in the fall. And Gertrude, if I 
could have a real party — would it cost very much?" 

"We might all join and help you out," and Gertrude 
smiled. Had she ever been as silly as this? She had 
recognized the limitations of a small income, and Agnes 
had been sensible all her life. What could she do to 
improve this inconsequent, thoughtless girl, who seemed 
to have no idea but personal enjoyment of the flightiest 
kind, and not as sensible as little Virginia. And of all 
things in this world common sense was needed most. 

"Luella," she began again, gravely, "if you mean to 
be or do anything worth while, you will find education 
is a necessity. And pretty, refined manners ' ' 

"O gracious! don't lecture any more!" exclaimed 
the younger. 

For Lu was still a hoyden, and ran races and climbed 
trees and could take a fence equal to a boy. What a 
pity she had not been a boy ! 

"Events do go contrariwise in this world," she said to 
Agnes, with a sigh, after she had repeated the gist of this 
conversation. 

"And some go smoothly enough, or would, if we did 
not interfere," said the younger, with a smile. "I'm 
not sure but a boy like Lu would be the finish of us all. 
I sometimes wonder why all these children were given to 
mamma, who doesn't understand a thing about managing 
children, when there are so many people in the world 
longing for one or two. We can only hope Lu will tame 
down in a year or two." 



CHAPTER VI. 

IN A STRAIT BETWIXT TWO. 

THE greatest surprise of Gertrude's month at home 
was a note from Sherburne Beaumanoir, a pleas- 
ant, chatty, off-hand epistle, detailing some of their sum- 
mer pleasures, and wishing she could be there to share 
them, and announcing that he should run up from Bal- 
timore and make a call upon her. 

Gertrude was simply amazed. There was nothing to 
take exception at ; it was gentlemanly, friendly, as if 
they had been acquainted all their lives, and such a call 
was the most natural thing in the world. In a certain 
way it was gratifying, but quite impossible. It would fill 
her mother's head with foolish plans and hopes that would 
make no end of gossip in the town. Friendliness between 
young people Mrs. Maurice could not understand. With 
her, every attention pointed the way to matrimony. 

There was another vague aspect to Gertrude. She 
was beginning to realize the susceptible side to young 
men. And though this spurt of admiration might mean 
only a temporary interest, it was not wisdom to encourage 
it. Still with the other side of her nature she could see 
the half amusement, half vexation such a fancy would 
cause, even if it was evanescent. And now that they had 
taken her up so cordially, she would do nothing to annoy 
them. 

She had numerous engagements. The neighbors about 
made old-fashioned tea-parties for her. To have been in 



California, to say nothing of the nearer-by cities, was 
quite equal to going to Europe in their estimation. Mrs. 
Maurice was somewhat mollified with these attentions, 
though she took pains to explain for the hundredth time 
that Gertrude's going away was against her will, and that 
she never did or could approve of business women ; that 
home must always be the true centre of a woman's life. 
She wrote a dainty little note, pleading engagements 
and short absences from home, and the general dull 
aspect the town would have for a stranger who had seen 
so much, with a suggestion of inconvenience she knew 
his good breeding would lead him to respect. And yet 
she smiled a little to herself, in the thought that she 
might attract the nephew as well as the uncle. Mr. 
Murray's fancy had not been of the durable kind, evi- 
dently. 

When she fell into a fit of wonderment as to how 
Agnes could be happy with a man so much older than 
himself, she thought of Mr. Murray. In a certain fashion 
he seemed to have shaped her judgment of young men. 
They appeared so very youthful to her. And there had 
been Ward Garrison, who had recently married the girl 
selected for him and was very happy it seemed. Perhaps 
if she had met him quite alone with no stronger influence 
at hand, she might have drifted into the regard many 
girls think strong enough to marry upon, and are reason- 
ably satisfied. She knew Mr. Murray had made such a 
step impossible to her, and that during the past year 
other men had suffered by comparison with him. Why 
should she make him the arbiter of her destiny? This 
mysterious influence that she could not shake off, fretted 
her. And much as she really loved Princess Beaumanoir 
and admired her mother, it was Mr. Murray's disap- 



proval that stood out the most strongly against any ex- 
pressed admiration on the young man's part. 

She spent days with Agnes, helping with the family 
sewing, the burthen the young wife had taken cheerfully 
to her new home. 

"I sometimes wonder if time ever hangs heavy on 
mamma's hands," she said one day to Agnes. "There 
is a great deal said about the folly and frivolity of society 
women, and yet they keep very busy, if it is only pleas- 
ure. Some of them, many of them are in charitable or 
philanthropic work, and even society visiting makes de- 
mands on one. You are expected to add your mite to 
the general entertainment. Think of the time mamma 
spends just sitting on the porch looking at the same 
things she has looked at for thirty or forty years. She 
can darn lace exquisitely, and tablecloths and stockings. 
But it would be an excellent idea to now and then have 
the breath of strong new things. And those fifty or hun- 
dred-year-old novels she reads, with their exaggerated 
ideas and formal manners — yet one finds a great deal of 
roughness and coarseness in them as well. O, I do like 
the modern world. There must be a good many 
changes." 

" I suppose there have been since mamma's time. Yet 
she is not so very old either. But I think she must have 
been brought up on still farther back lines, when delicacy 
was considered one of the greatest virtues. And she was 
an only child." 

"And had a little money and didn't have to scramble 
as we always have," laughed Gertrude. " It is partly in 
the place, too. Cities adapt new ideas sooner than in- 
land towns. The world goes on with a rush. It is such 
a great, splendid world, Agnes." 





"But you see every one doesn't like the rush. So it is 
good that there are ways of satisfying different people." 

" And you are satisfied ? " 

Gertrude's tone was as much wonder as assertion. 

Agnes flushed and gave an irresolute little laugh. 

" Not satisfied to stop," she replied. " I want ever so 
many more things to happen, things I can help along." 

"As what ?" 

"I want Virgie to get well and strong. I think she 
has some rather curious traits, and she is fond of learning 
about people and what they have done. Perhaps by and 
by you can help her, Gertrude. And Elsie is a good deal 
like me ; she will make a housekeeper if she gets the right 
kind of training." 

" Who trained you?" There was a spice of mischief 
in Gertrude's tone. 

"I suppose I had the aptitude for it that you had for 
learning. I should have been miserable at school, and 
I couldn't go about as you have done. Yet I enjoy your 
letters better than any book I have ever read. They are 
so vivid, you can see the places and the people. I read 
them to Mr. Rowdon, and he used to look so for their 
coming." 

"Then if they do you so much good, I shall write 
oftener." 

" O, please do. Virgie was so delighted when you de- 
scribed people." 

And sometimes Gertrude had wondered what she should 
write about ! The effort had been irksome. She hardly 
thought her gossip, often put in to fill up, would prove 
so entertaining. Agnes had gone far beyond her in 
thoughtfulness for others. 

"We have settled everybody's fate but Luella's," she 





remarked, presently. "Agnes, tell me what I had better 
do. I have promised her a silk frock, and I shall not 
give her one of my old ones," laughingly. 

"So long as you don't encourage any of her wild 
vagaries and leave her just where she is, I think she will 
come to some common sense. There are not many 
chances in life like yours, but she has an idea that one 
has only to go and ask for a thing. I am sure you tried 
quite a long while." 

"And had a great many hours of discouragement. 
There are so many people for each place. But — you do 
not think — she may marry? " 

" O, that is mamma's nonsense. She sees with the 
eye of faith a possible lover in every young man. Lu 
isn't sentimental. None of us are." 

There was a great deal of nonsense masquerading un- 
der the name of sentiment, Gertrude knew. There 
were foolish girls who thought they could not live with- 
out the regard of some especial man. But still, there 
was a very sacred love. Was everybody capable of it ? 
Agnes deserved it for her unselfishness, her care for 
every one's welfare. 

" At least," thought Gertrude, " I can give her a truer 
appreciation than ever before." She was touched by a 
new humility, a tenderness she had not known in the 
past. 

Yet she was not sorry when the summons came for her 
to join Mrs. Townsend. Not that the days had been ab- 
solutely tiresome, and she had found many things to do 
for them all. But the round was small, the life narrow. 

"I shall miss you so much," Agnes said. "But the 
letters will begin again. Yes," with a sudden brightness, 
" I think it is a good thing that you should be out in the 





world, gathering up treasures for us. You know now 
they are not wasted." 

She would never feel so again. She began to see that 
there were duties beside sending money home now and 
then and thinking all the rest of life belonged to herself. 

There had been a curious little fear lest she should 
hear again from Sherburne Beaumanoir. He was im- 
pulsive and considered his own pleasures, and was quite 
used to taking the enjoyment even if he went a little out 
of his way to do it, and trenched on that of another. 

There had been a very joyous time at Sherburne over 
him, a kind of feast with the families gathered in as far 
as they could. But ah, how they had strayed off. 
Beaumanoir was a rather lonely place now with no young 
life gladdening, making merry, and sometimes bringing 
sorrow. Even the sorrows and anxieties were sweet re- 
membrances to the two old people who had a great deal 
of time to gather up the olden threads and weave anew 
the various patterns of life. 

Yet they felt they had been very happy in their chil- 
dren. Judge Beaumanoir coming to a ripe busy middle 
life, much more ambitious for honors than in early man- 
hood. Was it not true that children spurred one on ? 
Millicent and Violet in lovely homes of their own, Fanny 
and Doctor Underwood near by and a continual source 
of interest, Edward really renewing his youth in the ease 
and content of his second marriage, Cecil in Russia. 
And there was Lyndell Carew, as dear as any of them, 
and Doctor Carew like another son. 

After a brief glimpse at home and a warm welcome 
from their father, the Baltimore cousins had come to 
Sherburne. Princess was the envy of the girls about, 
she had so many cavaliers, but she was very generous 





with them. Sherburne was her choicest possession just 
now ; they had the arrears of two years to make up. But 
Bertram was shooting up into a tall boy and would go to 
college next year. 

Professor Kenneth had promised them a week. 

"Maybe you won't like him just at first," explained 
Bertram, "but he knows so much and is so interested in 
everything. We did have such a delightful time with 
him on the island." 

"Isn't he rather sweet on that Miss Ensign, Princess? 
And how charming Mrs. Kenneth is. Of course she 
would be very likely to chose her brother's wife " 

"He doesn't want any wife," interposed Bertram, 
eagerly. " He is just splendid as he is. There ought to 
be some men left for the boys. Ruth Ensign is well 
enough, but I liked Gertie Maurice ever so much 
better. She was lots of fun ! Did you like her just as 
well, Princess, or has traveling about the world spoiled 
her?" 

" No, she isn't spoiled. And she keeps a warm re- 
membrance of last summer. I think she has grown 
prettier." 

"Some girls really need to grow prettier," declared 
astute seventeen, "but she is so bright you never think 
whether she is pretty or not." 

"She has grown more dignified." 

"I wish you had asked her down here. I think she 
would have thrown dignity to the winds. She was al- 
ways so ready to do anything." 

"Is it too late now? " asked Sherburne. 

"It is too early," said Princess, with a little unwil- 
lingness she did not understand herself. " She is to go 
home as soon as Mrs. Townsend can spare her. And 





when she has not been home for almost a year she must 
be anxious to see her people. I suppose her vacation 
depends on Mrs. Townsend's need of her." 

"Anyhow, we want the professor first." 

Princess had found it delightful to be welcomed home 
by a wide circle. Grandmamma and everybody took it 
for granted that her school days were over. And she 
had resolved to go to college. There was so much she 
still wanted to learn. 

Ray had come with her. Violet Osborne had gone 
with the Amorys to their cottage at Atlantic City, where 
they hoped to gather most of the cousins in August. 

"I do not see any need of a college course for you," 
the judge had said, kindly, to his sweet, youthful daugh- 
ter. " You will not teach — there are enough women in 
the world who must do something, and those who are 
not compelled to enter the ranks ought to give the oppor- 
tunity to their less favored sisters. Your mother and I 
want you at home — a few years at least," smiling rather 
mysteriously. 

Could she give up her dream and be happy ? 

' ' There are the two boys to look after, and then — three 
more. It will quite shake my purse," he said, humor- 
ously. 

The first three children had trodden closely upon each 
other, but the others at wider intervals. There were two 
girls and then Lawrence, much younger. There were 
times when Tessy Beaumanoir felt lonely without a baby 
in the house, and was almost sorry to think of coming 
manhood and womanhood. 

Yes, Princess understood, and she was one to accept 
without much friction. She was needed at home. She 
had duties as a daughter. And when she thought it over 





seriously it was not so much from a desire to make a 
place for herself, as a hunger for knowledge. 

Her mother was so glad to get her at home once more, 
and did need her in the entertainment of guests, for 
Sherburne House was hospitable to the last degree. Had 
she not a duty here ? It seemed to her everything so far 
had been pleasure even when she called them duties. 
Was she to take all the agreeable things with a joy diffus- 
ing satisfaction, and draw back when her will and de- 
sires were crossed ? Was it really for ambition's sake ? 

And how cheerfully Ray Stanwood was accepting the 
new life planned out for her ! The care of her grand- 
mother, and the supervision of her father's house. True 
she would have many advantages of society, and there 
would be the Amorys at hand. But was there not some- 
thing finer than mere duty in it ? 

After all, could not duty be made high and fine and 
sweet, a thing one took up with gladness ? For when 
you came to think, a great deal of life was duty one 
owed to parents and friends, to the world. When there 
was a choice between two things there could be an elec- 
tion. 

Then she came to know of a disappointment laid upon 
her father, and resolved at once that she would not add 
anything to his dissatisfaction. She would give up cheer- 
fully with no longing. She would make herself happy in 
her work here. 

Doctor Carew had written a most kindly and solicitous 
letter to the judge after several talks with Sherburne about 
his future profession. 

"We must not have Leonard think we have overper- 
suaded," Lyndell said. 

" My persuasions have been mostly of the other way," 





Carew said, with a deflection of the brows that was 
more uncertainty than vexation. "I can see the pride 
Leonard would take in a son who was following in his 
footsteps. And whether Sherburne would be satisfied 
with the life that looks so attractive to him now " 

" O dear ! " and Dell made a pretty dainty moue that 
accorded well with the motion of the shoulders, " it will be 
our turn next to consider what is to be done with our 
children. I am frightened when I think how the years 
fly." 

" We have had great comfort and delight in them, my 
dear wife; " and he placed his hand caressingly over her 
shoulder. 

"But we shall have a double portion, for the twins 
will be grown up at the same time. Only the girls do 
seem to get ahead of the boys." 

"The refining process begins a little sooner." 

"Go and write your letter," the wife said with pretty 
peremptoriness. 

The letter had given Judge Beaumanoir a heartache. 
Not altogether because his son's path was likely to 
diverge, but that so far he made no further mention of 
any decision since he had changed his mind about a lit- 
erary professorship some months before. It pained him 
not to be first in his son's confidence. He would have 
felt angry if it had been any other man than Doctor Carew. 

But Sherburne was having the best of good times. 
Everybody gave him a warm welcome, had lawn tennis 
parties, teas, dances, picnics, sails. Bertram was a great 
favorite as well. And when the two cousins came 
they almost ran into dissipation. The flavor of simple 
pleasure was not spoiled by deep-laid plans and enticing 
wiles to catch husbands. 





"O dear ! " and Bertram holding a letter in his hand 
indulged in the luxury of a most woe-begone expression. 
"What do you think has happened, or is going to hap- 
pen ? ' ' 

"Until it does happen do not despair," said Ray, 
sententiously. 

"But it has happened, or the first part of it. The 
professor cannot come. He was to go to Labrador and 
the Commission has been ordered away a fortnight earlier 
than he expected. And now he has just been settling 
Mrs. Kenneth for the summer. O Ray, you ought to 
read what he says about Ruth Ensign, here — turning 
over a leaf. I suppose she is wonderfully nice and all 
that, but we've known so many nice girls, we have them 
of our own;" and he laughed mischievously. "That 
doesn't make up for my disappointment." 

Ray colored at the praise for her kindly discrimination 
in choosing Ruth. As soon as Mrs. Kenneth was really 
settled and rested, she should write Ray a good long let- 
ter of gratitude for giving her a new daughter. 

"O, you can both read it all. I do believe the pro- 
fessor is very much disappointed for he wanted to see 
Sherburne House and Beaumanoir. But he thinks we 
have so many young people." 

It was quite a chatty letter, adapted to a boy's com- 
prehension, and indulging in quiet bits of fun by way 
of comfort. They would hardly miss him just now, and 
if all should prove agreeable he would try to be there 
early in September, and Bertram could come up with 
him. 

"I do not deserve quite so much credit about Ruth," 
said Ray, with a soft flush. " It was just a thought, and 
yet I couldn't help thinking that I should like to fill the 





place if I had been — without a home. Mrs. Kenneth 
and Margaret were so utterly lovely through my illness. 
O, I do wonder if Margaret will ever be jealous ! " 

"She has her husband. She could not devote herself 
entirely to her mother." 

"And — somehow, Princess, I can't help feeling that in 
the end the professor will marry Ruth." Ray said this 
for her own comfort and strengthening. She had been 
made aware during her convalescence the year before 
how very easy it would be to love him, but friendly as he 
had been there was no peculiar sentiment in his regard. 
But he would see Ruth so often. 

"Well — why not? Only — she seems so young." 

" About our age. And she will have quite a little for- 
tune. She will be like another daughter to Mrs. Ken- 
neth." 

Princess colored suddenly in spite of her effort. 

"Princess dear," putting her arm about her cousin's 
waist — "are you sorry I spoke of Ruth? She was so 
anxious to do something that would give her a home 
until she saw her way a little clearer. And it would 
have been no use to try to live with her grandmother. 
Even the doctor protested against that. And Mrs. Ken- 
neth wanted some young person ' ' 

" O, no, no ! " cried Princess, eagerly. " We have so 
much love we need not grudge Ruth that, even if we are 
rather jealous and want Mrs. Kenneth's regard," smiling 
a little out of frank and tender eyes. 

Ray smiled, too. " And whatever happens will be a 
lovely thing for both of them," she said, proud of herself 
that she had crowded down some faintly jealous feeling. 
Even if any one asked her in marriage, and she had a 
premonition that no one ever would, she must fulfil the 





duty made so plain to the two who had been glad and 
thankful to have her. 

There was a call for the girls, and some new pleasure 
on hand. Sherburne seemed to think they must always 
be ready for any turn of fancy, and if ever there was a 
slight protest he said pathetically — "And when I have 
been away two whole years," which would have con- 
quered the most obdurate girl. 

They went over to the river for a row down to one of 
the islands, and on the way they picked up a few more to 
join them in a merry time. Princess sang for them, 
helped get the picnic dinner and was the brightest in re- 
membering quotations from Shakespeare to grace the 
feast. 

Yet through it all her heart was heavy. Some special 
brightness seemed gone out of the sun, though it shone 
over the long reaches of field and quivered about the 
woodlands. Now and then she lost what some one said 
as her thoughts wandered a little. What had happened 
to her ! 

"You look tired," said her mother, tenderly, patting 
the soft cheek and kissing the cool brow. "To-morrow 
must be rest day — the boys shall not take you out any- 
where." 

" I am a little tired," Princess admitted. 

"And next week you are all to go to Atlantic City, 
when there will be more dissipation. You must be fresh 
for that." 

Sherburne decided to go to Baltimore with his cousins. 
Another little plan he did not consider necessary to con- 
fide to any one. 

"Sherburne," his father said, as they sat out on the 
piazza the last evening, "it is almost time to consider 





plans for the future, if you have anything beyond vague 
ideas. It is time you settled to some permanency." 

"I think I have about settled. I was talking with 
Uncle Bertram while I was in New York " 

Judge Beaumanoir kept silent. Sherburne was a little 
embarrassed. He had promised the doctor he would 
consult his father at the earliest opportunity, but some- 
thing was always happening. 

"I think I shall take up medicine. Dr. Underwood 
and Dr. Carew set one a fine example. I concluded I 
wanted something with a wider scope than a professor's 
chair, something that brings me nearer in touch with 
real people. I hope you don't object? " when he waited 
a moment or two for his father's comment. 

" I should not object to any course into which you put 
your whole heart and soul, and that was best calculated 
to develop your highest possibilities. Still, I confess 
frankly I had hoped " 

Sherburne was playing with the little spaniel who sud- 
denly bounced down the steps and uttered a sharp yelp, 
and he rushed to pick it up. 

"I beg your pardon," as he glanced at his father's 
grave face. " I am afraid the law hasn't quite the right 
scope for me. And I am sorry if you — but you certainly 
can't have any objections, if — if it isn't quite what you 
had hoped," with the confident ring of youth in his 
voice. 

"I shall not object if you are in earnest, and choose 
from firm convictions," was the grave reply. 

" It is a noble profession." 

' ' When nobly carried out — yes. Yet it seems to me 
there is as much call for noble minds in building up the 
walls of justice and probity, and quite as high problems 





to solve in law. It leads to some of the best positions, 
some of the greatest honors, and though it may be used 
for perverted ends, a man can be as upright in this walk 
as in any other. I hoped some son of mine would take 
up my work when I was ready to lay it down. He would 
have the prestige of an honorable name, and step into an 
enviable connection. I can see that Bertram's heart is 
elsewhere ' ' 

There was little Larry left, but it would be years before 
he could make any election. 

"I am sorry we can't look at the matter alike," the 
young fellow said, in a softened tone that he meant for 
partial regret. " It isn't altogether a new thought with 
me." 

The father sighed regretfully. It had been quite a 
dream of late that he and his son would work on the 
same lines. The companionship would have been so 
grateful, so cheering. But he could not insist or force 
his inclinations. 

"You will find a good deal of detail and drudgery. 
And it is not given to every man to come up with such 
bounds as Doctor Carew. Do not look at his career and 
idealize too much, but make up your mind to good, 
hard, solid work." 

" O the work doesn't frighten me. Uncle Bertram 
said I must discuss the matter with you, but I told him I 
knew you would consent to whatever I had set my heart 
upon." 

Had youth any deep seriousness of purpose? He 
looked at his gay, handsome son as he sat there on the 
step, thrown up clearly by the long ray of lamplight 
streaming from the window, and it brought back the re- 
membrance of his own careless youth, of the follies even 





of his two years of invalidism, his headstrong perversity, 
his love of his own will and pleasure. So far, though 
Sherburne had been rather extravagant, he had committed 
no overt act of folly. Surely he could trust him to Ber- 
tram Carew and his dear Cousin Dell, who had really 
been one of the good angels of his life, the other being 
his beloved helpmeet, whose trust he had never for an 
instant betrayed. 

But he had built up a fine reputation, and he would 
have been glad for his son to come after him and reap its 
advantages. Yet he said graciously : 

" Whatever you feel equal to, that is the right thing 
for you to undertake." 

Then he went in for comfort to the sweet wife of his 
youth. 



CHAPTER VII. 

ACCEPTANCE. 

'TpHE consciousness that was a long time coming to 
-*- Princess Beaumanoir, that filled her at first with 
incredulity, and later with a protest in which was a deli- 
cate half shame, stole over her at last with a convincing 
force. All the year she had been dreaming of some one's 
commendation. She had been striving to reach heights 
that he had approved and thought worthy of one's best 
and truest aim. Was it not to come nearer to his fine 
standard that she had wanted to go on in the ways of 
fascinating knowledge ? 

She had been more disappointed than she would have 
cared to own, than she could have owned to any human 
being, when Professor Kenneth's visit had been delayed. 
There had been so few crosses in her young life, every 
thing had gone smoothly, joyously, and at first she felt 
bewildered, almost indignant that any one should suppose 
the grave self-centred man deep in the beginnings of the 
world's history should stop to care for any girl. But 
Aunt Millicent had suggested it a year ago, and after all, 
what more natural than that it should be Ruth Ensign ? 
He had seen so much of her this summer. And Mrs. 
Kenneth was very fond of her. She just fitted into the 
place, which must have been made hers from the begin- 
ning. 

Everybody thought so, it seemed. Grown-up eyes 

 





must be wiser, eyes that had not lost themselves in the 
fascinating radiance of dreams, could see more clearly. 
She had been half asleep in the enchanted land of pos- 
sibility, and now she roused herself with a resolute shake. 
She could almost wish she were Bertram, going to see 
him every day, to study, to be helped onward in the 
attractive realm of knowledge. She could spend even- 
ings then with Mrs. Kenneth and watch happy Ruth, 
sweet and smiling— any girl must be proud and happy 
whom the professor loved. 

For herself, she had made a mistake and almost fallen 
to coveting what was her neighbor's. But it was a thing 
one could live over, put away with swift hands like any 
other temptation. She was too healthy toned to brood 
over such a thing, once convinced. 

If she needed any other tonic draught she had it in 
Ruth's letter. They had not gone far away this time, 
to a pretty little settlement on the ocean side of Long 
Island, a great, old-fashioned, roomy house, where Mr. 
and Mrs. Drayton and the two children would come 
presently and Mrs. Mallory with her two. The Carews 
