returned to the road.

The farmer's dilemma touched me. What in the world was so utterly
hopeless to pursue, unaided, as a coy pig at midnight.

"If you will just stand there, squire, and sorter spread out your
skirts, I'll git him in a jiffy," said the panting farmer.

I did as I was bidden. The farmer approached; the pig pranced between
his legs.

"By gum!" exclaimed the protected of Ceres.

But, after half an hour, the pig became over-confident, and the tiller
of phosphites seized him and bore him, shrieking, to the wooden crate in
the wagon, there depositing him, fastening the door, and climbing into
his seat with warm thanks to me for my aid.

I told the Brother to the Ox that he was welcome. Then, with heart
serenely warmed by brotherly love and a knowledge of my own
condescension, I retired to sleep soundly until Higgins came to shave me
at eight o'clock next morning.

"Beg pardon, sir," said Higgins, stirring his lather as I returned from
the bath to submit my chin to his razor--"beg pardon, sir, but--but the
pig, sir----"

"What pig?" I asked sharply. Had Higgins beheld me pursuing that
midnight porker? And if he had, was he going to tell about it?

"What pig, sir? Why, THE pig, sir."

"I do not understand you, Higgins," I said coldly.

"Beg pardon, sir, but Miss Alida asked me to tell you, that the pig----"

"WHAT PIG?" I repeated exasperated.

"Why--why--OURS, sir."

I turned to stare at him. "MY pig?" I asked.

"Yes, sir--he's gone, sir----"

"Gone!" I thundered.

"Stolen, sir, out o' the pen last night."

Stunned, I could only stare at Higgins. Stolen? My pig? Last night?

"Some one," said Higgins, "went and opened that lovely fancy sty, sir;
and the pig he bolted. It takes a handy thief to stop and steal a pig,
sir. There must ha' been two on 'em to catch that pig!"

"Where's that miserable ruffian I hired to watch the sty?" I demanded
hotly.

"He has gone back to work for Mr. Van Dieman, sir. His hands was all
over black paint, and I see him a-wipin' of 'em onto your white picket
fence."

The calmness of despair came over me. I saw it, now. I had been called
out of bed to help catch my own pig. For nearly half an hour I had
dodged about there in front of my own house, too stupid to suspect, too
stupid even to recognize my own pig in the disguised and capricious
porker shying and caracolling about in the moonlight. Good heavens! Van
Dieman was right. A man who helps to steal his own pig is fit for
nothing but Paris or a sanitarium.

"Shave me speedily, Higgins," I said. "I am not very well, and it is
difficult for me to preserve sufficient composure to sit still. And,
Higgins, it is not at all necessary for you to refer to that pig
hereafter. You understand? Very well. Go to the telephone and call up
the Cunard office."

Presently I was in communication with Bowling Green.

That morning in the breakfast-room, when I had kissed my daughter Alida,
aged eighteen, and my daughter Dulcima, aged nineteen, the younger said:
"Papa, do you know that our pig has been stolen?"

"Alida," I replied, "I myself disposed of him"--which was the dreadful
truth.

"You sold him?" asked Dulcima in surprise.

"N--not exactly. These grape-fruit are too sour!"

"You gave him away?" inquired Alida.

"Yes--after a fashion. Is this the same coffee we have been using? It
has a peculiar----"

"Who did you give him to?" persisted my younger child.

"A--man."

"What man?"

"Nobody you know, child."

"But----"

"Stop!" said I firmly. "It is a subject too complicated to discuss."

"Oh, pooh!" said Dulcima; "everybody discusses everything in Oyster Bay.
And besides I want to know----"

"About the pig!" broke in Alida.

"And that man to whom you gave the pig----"

"Alida," said I, with misleading mildness, "how would you like to go to
Paris?"

"Oh! papa----"

"And you, Dulcima?"

"Darling papa!"

"When?" cried Alida.

"Wednesday," I replied with false urbanity.

"Oh! The darling!" they cried in rapture, and made toward me.

"Wait!" I said with a hideous smile. "We have not yet left Sandy Hook!
And I solemnly promise you both that if either of you ever again ask me
one question concerning that pig--nay, if you so much as look askance at
me over the breakfast bacon--neither you nor I will ever leave Sandy
Hook alive!"

They have kept their promises--or I should never have trodden the deck
of the S. S. Cambodia, the pride of the great Cunard Line, with my
daughter Dulcima on one side and my daughter Alida on the other side of
me, and my old friend Van Dieman waving me adieu from a crowded pier,
where hundreds of handkerchiefs flutter in the breeze.

"Au revoir et bon voyage!" he called up to me.

"Toujours la politesse," I muttered, nodding sagely.

"That was a funny reply to make, papa," said Dulcima.

"Not at all," I replied, with animation; "to know a language is to know
when to use its idioms." They both looked a little blank, but continued
to wave their handkerchiefs.

"À bien-tôt!" called Alida softly, as the towering black sides of the
steamer slipped along the wooden wharf.

Van Dieman raised his hat on the pier below, and answered: "À bien-tôt?
C'est la mort, jusqu'à bien-tôt! Donc, vîve la vie, Mademoiselle!"

"There is no necessity in chattering like a Frenchman when you talk
French," I observed to Alida. "Could you make out what Van Dieman said
to you?"

"Y--yes," she admitted, with a slight blush.

I glanced at Dulcima. There was a mischievous light in her blue eyes.

"Pooh!" I thought; "Van Dieman is forty if he's a day."

While the ship slid on past Castle William and poked her nose toward the
forts at the Narrows, I watched the distant pier which we had left. It
was still black with people, moving like ants. And, as I looked, I
muttered ever: "Pooh! Van Dieman's forty. There's nothing in it, nothing
in it, nothing whatever."

Off Fort Hamilton I noticed that Alida had a tear in one of her brown
eyes. "There's nothing in it," I repeated obstinately.

Off Sandy Hook we ran into a sea-storm. In a few minutes many of the
passengers went below; in a few more minutes the remainder of the
passengers went below; and I was on the way below with my daughter Alida
on one arm and my daughter Dulcima on the other.

"There is nothing in it," I reflected, as the ship shuddered, pitched,
and we involuntarily began running down a toboggan slide, taking little
timorous steps. Then the deck flew up and caught the soles of our shoes
before we were ready to put our feet down. "Alida," I said, "do you feel
bored?"

There was no mistaking the tears in her eyes now. "There's nothing in
it. There's nothing in anything," I muttered faintly. And I was right as
far as it concerned the passengers on the pitching Cambodia.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CHAPTER II

A CHAPTER DEPICTING A RATHER GARRULOUS REUNION


The second day we ran out of the storm. I remember on that day that I
wore a rather doggy suit of gray--a trifle too doggy for a man of my
years. In my button-hole reposed a white carnation, and as I strolled
into the smoking-room I was humming under my breath an air from "Miss
Helyet"--a thing I had not thought of in twenty years.

"Well, upon my word!" exclaimed a man who looked up from his novel as I
entered the doorway. "Gad! You haven't changed in twenty years!--except
that your moustache is----"

"Sure! And my temples, Williams! Besides, I have two grown-up daughters
aboard! How are you, anyway, you Latin Quarter come-back?"

We settled ourselves, hands still warmly clasped.

"You're not going back to Paris?" I asked.

"Why, man, I live there."

"By George, so you do! I forgot."

There was a silence--that smiling, retrospective silence which ends
inevitably in a sigh not entirely painful.

"Are any of the old men left there?" I asked.

"Some."

"I--I suppose the city has changed a lot. Men who've been over since,
say so."

"It hasn't changed, radically."

"Hasn't it, Williams?" I asked wistfully.

"No. The old café is exactly the same. The Luxembourg Quarter will seem
familiar to you----"

"I'm not going there," I said hastily.

He smiled; I could see him doing it, askance. But my features remained
dignified and my attitude detached.

"I wonder," I began carelessly, "whether----"

"She got married," he said casually; "I'm glad. She was a sweet little
thing."

"She was exceedingly charming," I said, selecting a cigar. "And the
other?"

"Which?"

"I forget her name."

"Oh, you mean Delancy's?"

"Yes."

"I don't know whatever became of her," he said.

"Whatever became of Delancy?"

"Oh, he did what we all usually do--he came back, married, and spent the
better part of his life in trying to keep his daughter from marrying
that young Harroll."

"Sir Peter's son?"

"Yes. I was a guest at the Delancy's at the time, and I nearly died.
Harroll confided in me, Catharine Delancy confided in me, John Delancy
told me his woes. It's an amusing story. Do you want to hear it?"

"Go ahead," I said. "My sympathies are already with Delancy. I've a pair
of daughters myself, and I'm trying to shoo away every sort of man and
keep 'em for myself a little longer."

Williams smiled:

"Well, you listen to what those two did to John Delancy. It was some."

I lit my cigar; he lit his; and I settled back, looking at him
attentively as he began with a wave of his gloved hand, a story of
peculiar interest to a man with two unusually attractive daughters:

       

Now, although Harroll had been refused a dozen times--not by Miss
Delancy, but by her father--the young man's naturally optimistic spirits
suffered only temporary depression; and a few evenings later he asked
for her again, making it a bakers' dozen--an uncanny record.

"No," said Mr. Delancy.

"Won't you let me have her when I become tenth vice-president of the
Half-Moon Title Guarantee and Trust----"

"No, I won't."

"When will you let me try for her?"

There was no reply.

"Well, sir," said the young man cheerfully, "there must be some way, of
course."

"Really, Jim, I don't see what way," said Mr. Delancy, without emotion.
"I don't want you for a son-in-law, and I'm not going to have you.
That's one of the reasons I allow you the run of the house. My daughter
sees too much of you to care for you. It's a theory of my own, and a
good one, too."

"Why don't you want me for a son-in-law?" asked the young man, for the
hundredth time.

"Can you give me one single reason why I should want you?" asked Mr.
Delancy wearily.

Harroll stood buried in meditation for a few moments. "No," he said, "I
can't recall any important reasons at the moment."

"I can supply you with one--your sense of honor--but it doesn't count in
this case, because you wouldn't be in my house if you didn't have any."

Harroll looked at the fire.

"I've told you a hundred times that when my little girl marries, she
marries one of her own kind. I don't like Englishmen. And that is all
there is to it, Jim."

"Don't you like me?"

"I'm not infatuated with you."

"Well," said Harroll, slowly pacing the rug in front of the fire, "it's
curious, isn't it?--but, do you know, I think that I am going to marry
Catharine one of these days?"

"Oh, I think not," replied Mr. Delancy amiably. "And perhaps this is a
good opportunity to say good-by for a while. You know we go to Palm
Beach to-morrow?"

"Catharine told me," said the young man, placidly. "So I've wired for
quarters at The Breakers--for two weeks."

The two men smiled at one another.

"You take your vacation late," said Mr. Delancy.

"Not too late, I trust."

"You think you can afford Palm Beach, Jim?"

"No; but I'm going."

Mr. Delancy rose and stood thoughtfully twirling his monocle by the
string. Then he threw away his cigar, concealed a yawn, and glanced
gravely at the clock on the mantel.

"May I go in and say good-night to Catharine, sir?" asked young Harroll.

Mr. Delancy looked bored, but nodded civilly enough.

"And, Jim," he drawled, as the young man started toward the
drawing-room, "I wouldn't go to Palm Beach if I were you."

"Yes, you would, sir--if you were I."

"Young man," said Mr. Delancy, mildly, "I'm damned if I have you for a
son-in-law! Good-night."

They shook hands. Harroll walked into the drawing-room and found it
empty. The music-room, however, was lighted, and Catharine Delancy sat
tucked up in a deep window-seat, studying a map of southern Florida and
feeding bonbons to an enormous white Persian cat.

"Jim," she said, raising her dark eyes as he sauntered up, "you and
father have lately fallen into the disreputable habit of sitting behind
closed doors and gossiping. You have done it thirteen times in three
months. Don't be such pigs; scandal, like other pleasures, was meant to
be shared."

At a gesture of invitation he seated himself beside her and lifted the
Persian pussy to his lap.

"Well," she inquired, "are you really going with us?"

"I can't go when you do, but I'm going to The Breakers for a week or
two--solely to keep an eye on your behavior."

"That is jolly!" she said, flushing with pleasure. "Was father pleased
when you told him?"

"He didn't say he was pleased."

"He is always reticent," she said, quickly. "But won't it be too jolly
for words! We'll travel miles and miles together in bicycle-chairs, and
we'll yacht and bathe and ride and golf, and catch amber-jack and
sharks, and--you'll persuade father to let me gamble just once at the
club--won't you?"

"Not much! Where did you hear that sort of talk, Catharine?"

"Don't tweak Omar's tail and I'll tell you--there! you've done it again,
and I won't tell you."

He fell to stroking the cat's fur, gazing the while into space with an
absent eye that piqued her curiosity. For a year now he had acquired
that trick of suddenly detaching himself from earth and gazing
speculatively toward heaven, lost in a revery far from flattering to the
ignored onlooker. And now he was doing it again under her very nose.
What was he thinking about? He seemed, all at once, a thousand miles
removed from her. Where were his thoughts?

Touched in her amour propre, she quietly resumed the map of southern
Florida; but even the rustle of the paper did not disturb his
self-centred and provoking meditation.

She looked at him, looked at the map, considered him again, and finally
watched him.

Suddenly, for the first time in her life, she thought him dangerously
attractive. Surprised and interested, she regarded him in this new
light, impersonally for the moment. So far away had he apparently
drifted in his meditation that it seemed to her as though she were
observing a stranger--a most interesting and most unusual young man.

He turned and looked her straight in the eyes.

Twenty-two, and her first season half over, and to be caught blushing
like a school-girl!

There was no constraint; her self-possession cooled her cheeks--and he
was not looking at her, after all: he was looking through her, at
something his fancy focused far, far beyond her.

Never had she thought any man half as attractive as this old friend in a
new light--this handsome, well-built, careless young fellow absorbed in
thoughts which excluded her. No doubt he was so habituated to herself in
all her moods that nothing except the friendliest indifference could
ever----

To her consternation another tint of warm color slowly spread over neck
and cheek. He rose at the same moment, dropped the cat back among the
cushions, and smiling down at her, held out his hand. She took it, met
his eyes with an effort; but what message she divined in them Heaven
alone knows, for all at once her heart stood still and a strange thrill
left her fingers nerveless in his hand.

He was saying slowly, "Then I shall see you at Palm Beach next week?"

"Yes.... You will come, won't you?"

"Yes, I will come."

"But if you--change your mind?"

"I never change. May I write you?"

"Good-night.... You may write me if you wish."

"I will write, every day--if you don't mind."

"No--I don't mind," she said thoughtfully.

She withdrew her hand and stood perfectly still as he left the room. She
heard a servant open the door, she heard Harroll's quick step echo on
the stoop, then the door closed.

A second later Mr. Delancy in the library was aroused from complacent
meditation by the swish of a silken skirt, and glancing up, beheld a
tall, prettily formed girl looking at him with a sober and rather
colorless face.

"Father," she said, "I'm in love with Jim Harroll!"

Mr. Delancy groped for his monocle, screwed it into his left eye, and
examined his daughter.

"It's true, and I thought I'd better tell you," she said.

"Yes," he agreed, "it's as well to let me know. Ah--er--when and how did
it occur?"

"I don't know, father. I was feeding Omar bonbons and looking over the
map of South Florida, and thinking about nothing in particular, when Jim
came in. He said he was going to Palm Beach, and I said, 'How jolly!'
and he sat down and picked up Omar, and--I don't know how it was, but I
began to think him very attractive, and the first thing I
knew--it--happened!"

"Oh! So that's the way it happened?"

"I think it was, father."

"No doubt you'll outgrow it."

"Do you think so?"

"I haven't a doubt of it, little daughter."

"I have."

Mr. Delancy dropped his monocle and looked at the fire. The fire was all
right.

"Do you--do you suppose that Jim is--does--thinks--knows----"

"I never speculate on what Jim is, does, thinks, or knows," said her
father, thoughtfully, stirring the embers and spoiling a perfectly good
fire. When he looked up again she had gone.

"One theory smashed!" observed Mr. Delancy. "I'll try another, with
separation as the main ingredient."

He sat down before the fire and lighted a fresh cigar, which wasn't good
for him.

"Must avoid making a martyr of Jim or there will be trouble," he mused.
"There remains another way--make a martyr of myself."

He sat swinging his monocle around his forefinger, gazing vacantly at
the pattern the shadows cast across the hearth.

"Avalon!" he said, abruptly. "Avalon! The 'back-to-nature' business,
'grass-cure' and all. It can't harm either Catharine or me, I fancy--or
any other pair of donkeys!"




[Illustration]

CHAPTER III

TROUBLE FOR TWO


A Note Found by Young Harroll on his Dresser the Evening of his Arrival
at Palm Beach.

  "11.30 A.M.

     "DEAR JIM--Everything is spoiled, after all! Father's failing health
     has suddenly become a serious matter, and we are going to try the
     'nature cure,' or whatever they call it, at Avalon Island. I had no
     idea he was really ill. Evidently he is alarmed, for we have only
     been here six days, and in a few minutes we are to start for
     Avalon. Isn't it perfectly horrid? And to think that you are
     coming this evening and expecting to find us here!

      "Father says you can't come to Avalon; that only invalids are
      received (I didn't know I was one, but it seems I'm to take the
      treatment, too!), and he says that nobody is received for less
      than a month's treatment, so I suppose that bars you even if you
      were self-sacrificing enough to endure a 'nature cure' for the
      pleasure of spending two weeks with [me, crossed out] us.

      "I'm actually on the verge of tears when I think of all we had
      planned to do together! And there's my maid at the door, knocking.
      Good-by. You will write, won't you?

  "CATHARINE DELANCY."

       

Mr. James Harroll to Miss Catharine Delancy, Avalon, Balboa County,
Florida.

  "HOLY CROSS LIGHT, FEBRUARY 15.

     "DEAR CATHARINE--Your father was right: they refuse to take me at
     Avalon. As soon as I found your note I telegraphed to Avalon for
     accommodations. It seems Avalon is an island, and they have to wait
     for the steamers to carry telegrams over from the mainland. So the
     reply has just reached me that they won't take me for less than a
     month; and my limit from business is two weeks or give up my
     position with your father.

      "Yesterday I came out here to Holy Cross Spring to shoot ducks.
      I'd scarcely begun shooting, at dawn, when along came a couple of
      men through the fog, rowing like the mischief plump into my
      decoys, and I shouted out, 'What the deuce are you about?' and
      they begged my pardon, and said they had thought the point
      unoccupied, and that the fog was thicker than several
      things--which was true.

      "So I invited them into the blind to--oh, the usual ceremony--and
      they came, and they turned out to be Jack Selden--the chap I told
      you about who was so decent to me in Paris--and his guide.

      "So we had--ceremonies--several of them--and Selden stayed to
      shoot with me over my decoys, and our bag was fifty-three, all big
      duck except fifteen bluebills.

      "Selden is a godsend to me. We're going to stay out here to-night
      at the lighthouse, and shoot all to-morrow if it doesn't blow too
      hard. It's blowing great guns now. I'm here in the lighthouse,
      writing in the glow of a lamp in the keeper's living-room, with
      his good little wife sewing by the fire and a half-dozen of his
      kids tumbling about on the floor. It's a pretty sight; I love
      children and firesides and that sort of thing. They've got hold of
      Selden now, and are making him tell stories of adventure. He's
      been all over the world, and is perfectly crazy to get married.
      Says he would prefer a widow with yellow hair and blue eyes. Do
      you know any? He's a nice chap."

      "Catharine, I wish I were in Avalon. They could put me in a
      strait-jacket and I wouldn't care as long as [you were, crossed
      out] I could be with [you, crossed out] your father and you in
      Avalon.

      "It's growing late, and Selden and I should be on the
      ducking-grounds to-morrow before dawn. The keeper's wife says it
      will blow too hard, but Selden only smiles. He's a cool one, and
      if he has the nerve to go out I'll go, too.

      "With sincere regards to your father and every wish for his speedy
      recovery, I remain

  "Yours faithfully,
  "JAMES HARROLL."

       

Lines Scribbled on the Leaf of a Note-book and Found in a Bottle in the
Pocket of an old Shooting-coat a Year Later.

  "ATLANTIC OCEAN,
  "MILES SOUTH OF HOLY CROSS LIGHT,
  "FEBRUARY 16.

     "CATHARINE--I think this is the end. Selden and I have been blown
     out to sea in a rowboat, and it's leaking. I only want to say
     good-by. Telegraph Selden's mother, Lenox, Massachusetts. I have
     nobody to notify. Good-by.

  "JAMES HARROLL."

       

Telegram to James Harroll, Received and Opened by the Keeper while
Search-boats Were still Out after Mr. Harroll and Mr. Selden, Two Days
Missing.

  "JAMES HARROLL, HOLY CROSS LIGHT, FLORIDA, EAST COAST:

     "Don't run any risks. Be careful for our sakes. Terrible storm on
     the coast reported here. Wire me that you are safe.

  "CATHARINE DELANCY,
  "Avalon, Florida."

       

Telegrams Addressed to Young Harroll, and Opened by the Keeper of the
Lighthouse after the Search-boats Had Returned.

No. 1.

     "Why don't you telegraph us? Your silence and the reports of the
     storm alarm us. Reply at once.

  "CATHARINE."

No. 2.

     "Wire Catharine, Jim. You surely were not ass enough to go out in
     such a storm.

  "S. DELANCY."

No. 3.

     "For pity's sake telegraph to me that you are safe. I cannot sleep.

  "CATHARINE."

       

Telegram to Miss Catharine Delancy, Avalon, Florida.

  "HOLY CROSS LIGHT.

     "MISS CATHARINE DELANCY:

      "Rowboat containing Mr. Harroll and Mr. Selden blown out to sea.
      Search-boats returned without finding any trace of them.

  "CASWELL, Keeper."

       

Telegram from Mr. Delancy to Keeper of Holy Cross Light.

     "CASWELL:

      "Charter a fast ocean-going tug and as many launches as necessary.
      Don't give up the search. Spare no expense. Check mailed to you
      to-day.

      "I will give ten thousand dollars to the man who rescues James
      Harroll. You may draw on me for any amount necessary. Keep me
      constantly informed of your progress by wire.

  "STEPHEN DELANCY."

       

In from the open sea drifted the castaways, the sun rising in tropic
splendor behind them, before them a far strip of snowy surf edging green
shores.

Selden sat in the bow, bailing; Harroll dug vigorously into the Atlantic
with both oars; a heavy flood-tide was doing the rest. Presently Selden
picked up the ducking-glass and examined the shore.

Harroll rested his oars, took a pull at the mineral water, and sighed
deeply. "Except for the scare and the confounded leak it's been rather
amusing, hasn't it?" he said.

"It's all right.... Hope you didn't set that farewell message afloat."

"What message?"

"Oh--I thought I saw you scribbling in your notebook and----"

"And what?"

"And stick the leaf into the bottle of gun-oil. If I was mistaken,
kindly give me my bottle of gun-oil."

"Pooh!" said Harroll. "The storm was magnificent. Can't a man jot down
impressions? Open a can of sardines, will you? And pass me the bread,
you idiot!"

Selden constructed a sandwich and passed it aft. "When we near those
ducks," he said, "we'd better give them a broadside--our larder's
getting low. I'll load for us both."

He fished about among the cartridge-sacks for some dry shells, loaded
the guns, and laid them ready.

"Bluebills," observed Harroll, as the boat drew near. "How tame they
are! Look, Selden! It would be murder to shoot."

The boat, drifting rapidly, passed in among the raft of ducks; here and
there a glistening silver-breasted bird paddled lazily out of the way,
but the bulk of the flock floated serenely on either side, riding the
swell, bright golden eyes fearlessly observing the intruders.

"Oh, a man can't shoot at things that act like that!" exclaimed Selden
petulantly. "Shoo! Shoo--o!" he cried, waving his gun in hopes that a
scurry and rise might justify assassination. But the birds only watched
him in perfect confidence. The boat drove on; the young men sat staring
across the waves, guns idly balanced across their knees. Presently
Harroll finished his sandwich and resumed the oars.

"Better bail some more," he said. "What are you looking at?"--for
Selden, using the ducking-glass, had begun to chuckle.

"Well, upon my word!" he said slowly--"of all luck! Where do you suppose
we are?"

"Well, where the devil are we?"

"Off Avalon!"

"Avalon!" repeated Harroll, stupidly. "Why, man, it's a hundred miles
south of Holy Cross!"

"Well, we've made it, I tell you. I can see one of their dinky little
temples shining among the trees. Hark! There go the bells ringing for
meditation!"

A mellow chime came across the water.

"It can't be Avalon," repeated Harroll, not daring to hope for such
fortune. "What do you know about Avalon, anyway?"

"What I've heard."

"What's that?"

"Why, it's a resort for played-out people who've gone the pace. When a
girl dances herself into the fidgets, or a Newport matron goes to
pieces, or a Wall Street man begins to talk to himself, hither they
toddle. It's the fashionable round-up for smashed nerves and
wibbly-wobbly intellects--a sort of "back-to-nature" enterprise run by a
"doctor." He makes 'em all wear garments cut in the style of the humble
bed-sheet, and then he turns 'em out to grass; and they may roll on it
or frisk on it or eat it if they like. Incidentally, I believe, they're
obliged to wallow in the ocean several times a day, run races afoot,
chuck the classic discus, go barefooted and sandal-shod, wear wreaths of
flowers instead of hats, meditate in silence when the temple bells
ring, eat grain and fruit and drink milk, and pay enormous bills to the
quack who runs the place. It must be a merry life, Harroll. No tobacco,
no billiards, no bridge. And hit the downy at nine-thirty by the
curfew!"
