The President was rushed off his feet and his hand 
was forced. An honest but delirious country was 



 

threatening impeachment and clamoring for war. Its 
representatives were hammering on the doors of the 
White House and shrieking in Congress. A dishonest 
press was inflaming it and injuring it in the eyes of the 
world by assaulting the integrity of the Executive and 
of the leading men in both Houses ; and unscrupulous 
politicians were extracting every possible party advantage, until it looked as if the Democratic party, rent 
asunder by Mr. Bryan and his doctrines, would be unified once more. The House, after the President's 
calm and impersonal message on the Maine report, 
acted like a mutinous school of bad boys who had not 
been taught the first principles of breeding and dignity ; 
the few gentlemen in it hardly tried to make themselves heard, and even the Speaker was powerless to 
quell a couple of hundred tempers all rampant at 
once. Every conceivable insult was heaped upon 
the head of the President as he delayed his War 
Message from day to day, hoping against hope, and 
gaining what time he could to strengthen the Navy. 

It became necessary therefore for the high-class men 
in the Senate, particularly the Republicans, to present 
an unbroken front. Whatever the conclusions of the 
President, they must stand by him. It was their duty 
as Americans first and Republicans after ; for they had 
elected him to the high and representative office he 
filled, they were responsible for him, he had done 
nothing to forfeit their confidence, and everything, by 
his wise and conservative course, to win their approval. 
And it was their duty to their party to uphold him, for 
internal dissensions in this great crisis would weaken 
their forces and play them into the hands of the Democrats. Therefore, Senator North and others, who had 



 

strenuously and consistently opposed war from any 
cause, until it became evident that the President had 
been elbowed into the position of a puppet by his people instead of being permitted to guide them, withdrew their opposition, and when his Message finally 
was forced from his hand, let it be known that they 
should support it against the powerful faction in the 
Senate which demanded the recognition of Cuba as a 
Republic. The Message meant war, but a war that 
no longer could be averted, and there was nothing left 
for any high-minded statesman and loyal party man to 
do but to defend the President from those who would 
usurp his authority and tie his hands, to demonstrate 
to the world their belief in a statesmanship which was 
being attacked at every point by those whom his Message had disappointed, and to provide against one 
future embarrassment the more. 

When Betty had trodden the maze this far, she 
realized the unenviable position of the conservative 
faction in the Senate. North's position was particularly unpleasant. He had stood to the country as the 
embodiment of its conservative spirit, the spirit which 
was opposed uncompromisingly to this war. Several 
days before the speech of the Senator from Vermont 
exploded the inflamed nervous system of the country, he 
had made an address which had been copied in every 
State in the Union and been hopefully commented on 
abroad. In this speech, which was a passionless, impersonal, and judicial argument against interference in 
the domestic affairs of a friendly nation seeking to 
put down an insurgent population whose record for 
butchery and crime equalled her own, as well as a 
brilliant forecast of the evils, foreign and domestic, 



 

which must follow such a war, he demonstrated that if 
war was declared at this period it would be unjustifiable because it would be the direct result of the accident to the Maine, which, as the explosion could not 
be traced to the Spanish officials, was not a casus belli. 
Prior to that accident no important or considerable 
number of the American people had clamored for war, 
only for according belligerent rights to the Cubans, 
which measure they were not wise enough to see would 
lead to war. Therefore, had the Maine incident not 
occurred, the President would have been given the 
necessary time for successful diplomacy, despite the 
frantic efforts of the press and the loud-voiced minority; and it could not be claimed that the present 
clamor, dating from the fifteenth of February, was 
honestly in behalf of the suffering Cuban. It was 
for revenge, and it was an utterly unreasonable demand 
for revenge, as no sane man believed that Spain had 
seized the first opportunity to cut her throat; and 
until it could be proved that she had done so, it was a 
case for indemnity, not for war. Therefore, if war came 
at the present juncture it was because the people of the 
United States had made up their minds they wanted a 
fight, they would have a fight, they didn't care whether 
they had an excuse or not. 

The speech made a profound impression even in the 
agitated state of the public mind, for bitterly as North 
might be denounced he always was listened to. The 
press lashed itself into a fury and wrote head-lines 
which would have ridden its editors into prison had 
the country possessed libel laws adequate to protect a 
noble provision of the Constitution. The temperate 
men in the country had been with North from the be- 



 



ginning, but the excited millions excoriated him the 
more loudly. He was denounced at public banquets 
and accused by excited citizens all over the Union, 
except in his own State, of every depravity, from holding an unimaginable number of Spanish bonds to 
taking a ferocious pleasure in the sufferings of the 
reconcentrados. 

And in the face of this he must cast his vote for war. 

A weaker man would have held stubbornly to his 
position, made notorious by his personality, and a less 
patriotic have chosen the satisfaction of being consistent to the bitter end and winning some measure of 
approval from the unthinking. 

But North was a statesman, and although Betty did 
not see him to speak to for many weeks after the 
Message went to Congress, she doubted if he had hesitated a moment in choosing his course. He was a 
man who made a problem of nothing, who thought 
and acted promptly on all questions great and small. 
It was his manifest duty to support his President, who 
was also the head of his party, and to do what he could 
to win the sympathy of Europe for his country by making its course appear the right and inevitable one. 
North's position was the logical result of the delib- 
erations and decisions of the year 1787. Hamilton, 
the greatest creative and constructive genius of his century, never so signally proved his far-sighted statesman- 
ship as when he pleaded for an aristocratic republic with 
a strong centralized government. As he was capable of 
anything, he doubtless foresaw the tyranny of the people 
into which ill-considered liberty would degenerate, just 
as he foresaw the many strong, wise, and even great 
men who would be born to rule the country wisely if 



 

given the necessary power. If the educated men of 
the country knew that its destinies were wholly in their 
hands, and that they alone could achieve the highest 
honors, there is not one of them who would not train 
himself in the science of government. Such men, 
ruling a country in which liberty did not mean a 
heterogeneous monarchy, would make the lot of the 
masses far easier than it is to-day. The fifteen million Irish plebeians with which the country is cursed 
would be harmlessly raising pigs in the country. Hamilton, in one of his letters, speaks of democracy as a 
poison. Some twenty years ago an eminent Englishman 
bottled and labelled the poison in its infinite variety, 
as a warning to the extreme liberals in his own country. 
We attempted one ideal, and we almost have forgotten 
what the ideal was. Hamilton's could not have fared 
worse, and there is good reason to believe that educated and thinking men, unhampered by those who 
talk bad grammar and think not, would have raised 
our standards far higher than they are, even with men 
like North patiently and dauntlessly striving to counteract the poison below. At all events, there would be 
no question of a President's hand being forced. Nor 
would such a class of rulers put a man in the White 
House whose hand could be forced. 

Although Betty knew North would disregard the sneers 
of the press and of ambitious orators who would declaim 
while cannon thundered, she also knew that his impassive exterior hid a sense of humiliating defeat, and that 
the moment in which he was obliged to utter his aye 
for war would be the bitterest of his life. She fancied 
that he forgot her in these days, but she was willing 
to have it so. The intense breathless excitement of 



 

that time, when scarcely a Senator left his seat from 
ten in the morning till some late hour of the night, except to snatch a meal ; the psychological effect of the 
silent excited crowds in the galleries and corridors of 
the Capitol and on its lawns and the immensity of its 
steps ; the solemnity and incalculable significance of the 
approaching crisis, and the complete gravity of the man 
who possessed her mind, carried her out of herself and 
merged her personality for a brief while into the great 
personality of the nation. 



XIV 

IT was half-past one o'clock in the morning of the 
nineteenth of April. A thousand people, weary and 
breathless but intensely silent, were crowded together 
in the galleries of the Senate. They had been there 
all night, some of them since early afternoon, a few 
since twelve o'clock. Outside, the corridors were so 
packed with humanity that it was a wonder the six acres 
of building did not sway. For the first time in hours 
they were silent and motionless, although they could 
hear nothing. 

On the floor of the Senate almost every chair was 
occupied, and every Senator was singularly erect ; no 
one was lounging, or whispering, or writing to-night. 
All faced the Vice-President, alone on his dais, much 
as an army faces its general. Every foot of the wide 
semicircle between the last curve of chairs and the 
wall was occupied by members of the House of Representatives, who stood in a dignified silence with which 
they had been little acquainted of late. 



 

The Senate no longer looked like a Club. It re- 
called the description of Bryce : " The place seems 
consecrated to great affairs." 

The Secretary was about to call the roll for the vote 
which w/Duld decide the fate of Cuba and alter for ever 
the position of the United States in the family of 
nations. 

Betty had been in the gallery all night and a .part 
of the preceding day. When the Senate took a recess 
at half-past six in the evening, she and Mary Montgomery, while Mrs. Shattuc guarded their seats, had 
forced their way down to the restaurant, but had been 
obliged to content themselves with a few sandwiches 
bought at the counter. But Betty was conscious of 
neither hunger nor fatigue, although the strain during 
the last eight hours had been almost insupportable : 
the brief sharp debates, the prosing of bores, interrupted by angry cries of " Vote ! Vote ! " the reiterated announcement of the Chairman of the Committee 
on Foreign Relations that the conferees could not 
agree, the perpetual nagging of two Democrats and 
one Populist, the long trying intervals of debate on 
matters irrelevant to the great question torturing every 
mind, during which there was much confusion on the 
floor : the Senators talked constantly in groups except 
when the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations brought in his amended bill ; all this had made 
up a day trying to the stoutest nerves, and more than 
one person had fainted and been carried from the 
galleries. 

The blood throbbed in Betty Madison's head from 
repressed excitement and the long strain on her nerves. 
But the solemnity of the scene affected her so powerfully that her ego seemed dead, she only was conscious 
of looking down upon history. It seemed to her that 
for the first time she fully realized the tremendous 
issues involved in the calling of that roll of names. 
The attitude of the American people which she had 
deprecated and scorned was dignified by the attitude of 
that historical body below her. Even Senator North did 
not interest her. The Senate for the time was a unit. 

It seemed to her an interminable interval between 
the last echo of the rumbling voice of the Clerk who 
had read the resolution amended by the report of the 
conferees, and the first raucous exasperated note of 
the Secretary's clerk, after a brief colloquy between 
Senators. This clerk calls the roll of the Senate at all 
times as if he hated every member of it, and to-night 
he was nervous. 

Betty felt the blood throb in her ears as she counted 
the sharp decisive " ayes " and " nos," although Burleigh, whom she had seen during the recess, had told 
her there was no doubt of the issue. As the clerk 
entered the M's, she came to herself with a shock, 
and simultaneously was possessed by a desire to get out 
of the gallery before Senator North's time came to say 
" aye." She had heard the roll called many times, 
she knew there were fourteen M's, and that she would 
have time to get out of the gallery if she were quick 
about it. She made so violent an effort to control the 
excitement raging within her that her brain ached as 
if a wedge had been driven through it. She whispered 
hurriedly to Mary Montgomery, who was leaning breathlessly over the rail and did not hear her, then made 
her way up to the door as rapidly as she could ; even 
the steps were set thick with people. 



 

As she was passed out of the gallery by the door- 
keeper, and found herself precipitated upon that pale 
trembling hollow-eyed crowd wedged together like 
atoms in a rock, her knees trembled and her courage 
almost failed her. Several caught her by the arms, 
and asked her how the vote was going ; but she only 
shrugged her shoulders with the instinct of self-defence 
and pushed her way toward a big policeman. He 
knew her and put out his hand, thrusting one or two 
people aside. 

" This has been too much for you, miss, I reckon," 
he said. " I'll get you downstairs. Keep close 
behind me." 

He forced a way through the crowd to the elevator. 
To attempt to part the compact mass on the staircase 
would invite disaster. The elevator boy had deserted 
his post that he might hear the news the sooner, but 
the policeman pushed Betty into the car, and manipulated the ropes himself. On the lower floor was 
another dense crowd ; but he got her to the East door 
after rescuing her twice, called her carriage and returned to his post, well pleased with his bill. 

For many moments Betty, bruised from elbows, 
breathless from her passage through that crush in the 
stagnant air, could not think connectedly. She vaguely 
recalled Mrs. Mudd's large face and black silk dress 
in the Diplomats' Gallery, which even a Cabinet minister might not enter without a permit from a member 
of the Corps. Doubtless the doorkeepers had been 
flung to and fro more than once to-night, like little 
skiffs in an angry sea. She wondered how she had 
had sufficient presence of mind to fee the policeman, 
and hoped she had not given him silver instead of the 



 

large bill which had seemed to spring to her fingers at 
the end of that frightful journey. 

She leaned out of the open window, wishing it were 
winter, that the blood might be driven from her head ; 
but there was only the slight chill of a delicious April 
morning in the air, and the young leaves fluttered 
gently in the trees. In the afternoon hundreds of 
boys had sold violets in the streets, and the perfume 
lingered, floating above the heavier scent of the mag- 
nolias in the parks. Betty's weary mind pictured 
Washington as it would be a few weeks hence, a great 
forest of brilliant living green amidst which one had 
almost to look for the houses and the heroes in the 
squares. Every street was an avenue whose tall trees 
seemed to cut the sky into blue banners the word 
started the rearrangement of her scattered senses ; in 
a few weeks the dust would be flying up to the green 
from thousands of marching feet. 

She burst into tears, and they gave her some relief. 
The carriage stopped at the house a moment later, 
and she went directly to her boudoir. She took off 
her hat and pulled down her hair, rubbing her fingers 
against her burning head. Senator North took possession of her mind at once. The Senate was no 
longer a unit to her excited imagination ; it seemed 
to dissolve away and leave one figure standing there 
beaten and alone. 

She forgot the passionate efforts of other Senators in 
behalf of peace ; to her the fine conservative strength 
of the Senate was personified in one man. And if 
there were others as pure and unselfish in their ideals, 
his at least was the master intellect. 

She wondered if he remembered in this hour of 



 

bitter defeat that she had promised to come to this 
room and give him what she could of herself. That 
was weeks and weeks ago, and she had not repeated 
her intention, as she should have done. But he loved 
her, and was not likely to forget anything she said to 
him. Or would he care if he did remember ? Must 
not personal matters seem of small account to-night? 
Or was he too weary to care for anything but sleep ? 
Perhaps he had flung himself down on a sofa in the 
cloak-room, or in his Committee Room, and forgotten 
the national disaster while she watched. 

She had been walking rapidly up and down the 
room. Her thoughts were not yet coherent, and instinct prompted her to get the blood out of her head 
if she could. A vague sense of danger possessed her, 
but she was not capable of defining it. Suddenly she 
stopped and held her breath. She had become aware 
of a recurring footstep on the sidewalk. Her window 
abutted some thirty feet away. She craned her head 
forward, listening so intently that the blood pounded in 
her ears. She expected to hear the gate open, the 
footsteps to grow softer on the path. But they continued to pace the stone flags of the sidewalk. 

She opened her door, ran down the hall and into 
the parlor. Without an instant's hesitation she flung 
open a window and leaned out. The light from the 
street lamp fell full upon her. He could not fail to 
see her were he there. But he was not. The man 
pacing up and down before the house was the night 
watchman. 

Betty closed the window hurriedly and stumbled 
back into the dark room. The disappointment and 
reaction were intolerable. She felt the same blind rage 


 

with Circumstance which had attacked her the night 
he had kissed and left her. In such crises conventions are non-existent ; she might have been primeval 
woman for all she recalled in that hour of the teachings of the centuries. Had he been there, she would 
have called him in. He was hers, whatever stood 
between them, and she alone had the right to console 
him. 

Her mind turned suddenly to his house. He was 
there, of course ; it was absurd to imagine that his cool 
deliberation would ever forsake him. The moment 
the Senate adjourned he would have put on his hat, 
walked down to the East door, called a cab and gone 
home. And he was in his library. Why she felt so 
positive that he was there and not in bed she could 
not have told, but she saw the light in the long wing. 
She put her hands to her face suddenly, and moved to 
the door. She stumbled over a chair, and then noticed 
the intense darkness of the room. But beyond she 
saw distinctly the big red brick house of Senator North, 
with the light burning in the wing. Was she going 
to him ? She wondered vaguely, for her will seemed to 
be at the bottom of a pile of struggling thoughts and to 
have nothing to say in the matter. Surely she must. 
He was a man who stood alone and scorned sympathy 
or help, but he would be glad of hers because it was 
hers ; there was no possible doubt of that. And in 
spite of his record he must for the hour feel a bitter 
and absolute failure. 

A pebble would bring him to the window. He would 
come out, and come back here with her. She opened 
her arms suddenly. The room was so dark she almost 
could fancy him beside her. Would that he were ! 



 

She had no adequate conception of a morrow. The 
future was drab and formless. His trouble drew her 
like a magnet. She trembled at the mere thought of 
being able to make him forget. 

And he? If he came out and saw her standing 
there, he would be more than a man if he resisted the 
impulse to return with her here and take her in his 
arms. And he too must be in a state of mind in which 
to-day dwarfed and blotted out to-morrow. 

For the moment she stood motionless, almost breathless, realizing so vividly the procession of bitter and 
apprehensive thoughts in the mind which for so long 
had possessed and controlled hers that she forgot 
her intention, even her desire to go to him. It was 
this moment of insight and abstraction from self 
that saved her. Her own mind seemed to awake 
suddenly. 

It was as if her thinking faculty had descended to 
her heart during the last hours and been made dizzy 
and dull by the wild hot whirl of emotions there. It 
climbed suddenly to where it belonged, and set the 
rested machinery of her brain to work. 

Doubtless his impulse had been to come to her, to 
the room where he knew she was alone and would 
receive him if he demanded admittance. He had put 
the temptation aside, as he had put aside many others ; 
and it had been in her mind, was in her mind still, to 
make the temptation irresistible. And if he felt a 
failure to-night, she had it in her power to wreck his 
life utterly. 

It was more than possible that in the remaining years 
of his vigor dwelt his tardy opportunities for historical 
fame. The great Republic had sailed out of her 



 



summer sea into foreign waters, stormy, unfriendly, 
bristling with unimaginable dangers. Once more she 
would need great statesmen, not merely able legislators, 
and there could be no doubt in the mind of any 
student of the Senate that she would discover them 
swiftly. North was the greatest of these; and the 
record of his future, brilliant, glorious perhaps, seemed 
to unroll itself suddenly in the dark room. 

Betty drew a long hard breath. Her cheeks were 
cool at last, and she wondered if her heart were dead, 
it felt so cold. What mad impulse nearly had driven 
her to him to-night, independently of her will ; which 
had slept, worn out, like other faculties, by a day of 
hunger, excitement, fatigue, and physical pain? The 
impulse had risen unhindered and uncriticised from 
her heart, and if it had risen once it could rise again. 
The days to come would be full of excitement. She 
fancied that she already heard the roar of cannon, the 
beating of drums, the sobs of women. And below the 
racket and its sad accompaniment was always the low 
indignant mutter of a triumphant people at those who 
had dared to set themselves above the popular clamor 
and ask for sanity. The intolerable longing that had 
become her constant companion would be fed by every 
device of unpropitious Circumstance. Again and again 
she would experience this impulse to go to him, and 
some night the blood would not recede from her brain 
in time. 

She groped her way out of the dark parlor and 
down the hall, grateful for an excuse to walk slowly. 
Her boudoir was brilliant, and the struggle of the 
last few moments seemed the more terrible and significant by contrast with the dainty luxurious room. 



 



She wondered if she ever should dare to enter the parlor 
again, and if it always would not look dark to her. 

She sat down at her desk and wrote a letter. It 
ran : 

DEAR MR. BURLEIGH, I will marry you if you still 
wish it. Will you dine with us to-night ? 

BETTY MADISON. 

She was too tired for emotion, but she knew what 
would come later. Nevertheless, she went to the front 
door and asked the watchman to post the letter. Thep 
she went to bed. 



XV 

THE Senate adjourned a few moments after Betty left 
the gallery. There was little conversation in the cloakroom. The Senators were very tired, and it surely was 
a brain of bubbles that could indulge in comment upon 
the climax of the great finished chapter of the old 
Republic. 

North put on his hat and overcoat at once and left 
the Capitol. After the close confinement in heated 
and vitiated air for sixteen hours, the thought of a cab 
was intolerable : he shook his head at the old darky 
who owned him and whom he never had been able to 
dodge during his twenty years' service in Washington, 
plunged his hands into his overcoat pockets, and strode 
off with an air of aggressive determination which amused 
him as a fitting anti-climax. The darky grinned and 
drove home without looking for another fare. His 
Senator not only had paid him by the month for 



 

several years, but had supported his family for the last 
ten. 

North inhaled the pure cool air, the delicious perfume of violet and magnolia, as Betty had done. 
Once he paused and looked up at the wooded heights 
surrounding the city, then down at the Potomac and 
the great expanse of roofs and leaves. The Washington 
Monument, the purest, coldest, most impersonal monument on earth, looked as gray as the sky, but its outlines were as sharp as at noonday. North often 
watched it from the window of his Committee Room ; 
he had seen it rosy with the mists of sunset, as dark 
as granite under stormy skies, as waxen as death. 
Normally, it was white and pure and inspiring, never 
companionable, but helpful in its cold and lofty beauty. 

"It is a monument," he thought, to-night, "and 
to more than Washington." 

He turned into Massachusetts Avenue and strolled 
along, in no hurry to find himself between walls again. 
He was not conscious of physical fatigue, and experienced no longing for bed, but his brain was tired 
and he enjoyed the absence of enforced companionship and continued alertness, the cool air, the quiet 
morning in her last sleep. 

Betty, like all brilliant women who love passionately, 
had over-imagined, in her solitude and excitement. 
It is true that North had felt the bitterness of defeat, 
that his mind had dwelt upon the miserable and blasting 
thought that after years of unquestioned statesmanship 
and leadership, of hard work and unremitting devotion, 
his will had had no weight against hysteria and delirium. 
But both bitterness and the sense of failure had been 
dismissed in the moment when he had, once for all, 



 

accepted the situation ; and that had been several days 
before. Since then, he had shoved aside the past, and 
had given his undivided thought to the present and 
the future. He had uttered his " aye " almost indifferently ; it had been given to the President days since. 

Nevertheless, his brain, tired as it was, did not 
wander from the great climax in his country's history. 
To that country at large this climax meant simply a 
brief and arrogant chastisement of a cruel little nation; 
the generals would have been quite justified in sending 
their dress clothes and golf sticks on to Havana ; but 
North knew that this officious " police duty" was the 
noisy prologue to a new United States, possibly to the 
birth of a new Constitution. 

"Is this the grand finale of the people's rule? " he 
thought. " They have screamed for the moon as they 
never screamed before, and this time they have got it 
fairly between their teeth. Well, it is a dead old 
planet; will its decay vitiate their own blood and 
leave them the half-willing prey of a Circumstance 
they do not dream of now? Dewey will take the 
Philippines, of course. He would be an inefficient 
fool if he did not, and he is- the reverse. The Spanish 
in Cuba will crumble almost before the world realizes 
that the war has begun. The United States will find 
itself sitting open-mouthed with two huge prizes in its 
lap. It may, in a fit of virtue which would convulse 
history, give them back, present them, with much 
good advice and more rhetoric, to their rightful 
owners. And it may not. These prizes are crusted 
with gold ; and the stars and stripes will look so well 
in the breeze above that the pride of patriotism may 
decide they must remain there. And if it does if it 



 

does . . . The extremists in the Senate will grow 
twenty years in one. . . . With the bit between their 
teeth and the arrogance of triumph in their blood " 

He found himself in front of his own house. He 
turned slowly and looked intently for a moment toward 
I Street. His face softened, then he jerked out his 
latchkey, let himself in and went directly to the 
library. He still had no desire for bed, and threw 
himself into an easy-chair before the andirons. But it 
was the first time in several days that he had sat in a 
luxurious chair, and the room was full of soft warmth. 
He fell asleep, and although he seemed to awaken immediately, he could only conclude, when the experience 
which followed was over, that he had been dreaming. 

He suddenly became aware that a chair beside him 
was occupied, and he wheeled about sharply. His 
sense of companionship was justified ; a man sat 
there. North stared at him, more puzzled than surprised, endeavoring to fit the familiar face to some 
name on his long list of acquaintances, and wondering 
who in Washington could have given a fancy-dress ball 
that night. His visitor wore his hair in a queue and 
powdered, a stock of soft lawn, and a dress-coat of 
plum- colored cloth cut as in the days of the founders 
of the Republic. 

Although it was some moments before North recog- 
nized his visitor, his resentment at this unseasonable 
intrusion passed quickly ; the personality in the chair 
was so charming, so magnetic, so genial. He was a 
young man, between thirty and forty, with a long nose, 
a mobile mouth, dark gray- blue eyes full of fire and 
humor, and a massive head. It was a face of extraordinary power and intellect, but lit up by a spirit so 



 

audacious and impulsive and triumphant that it was 
like a leaping flame of dazzling brilliancy in some forbidding fortress. He was smiling with a delighted 
expression of good fellowship ; but North experienced 
a profound conviction that the man was weighing and 
analyzing him, that he would weigh and analyze everybody with whom he came in contact, and make few 
mistakes. 

''Who the deuce can he be?" he thought, "and 
why doesn't he speak?" And then it occurred to 
him that he had not spoken, himself. He was about 
to inquire with somewhat perfunctory courtesy in what 
manner he coulpl serve his visitor, when his glance fell 
on the man's hands. He sat erect with a slight ex- 
clamation and experienced a stiffening at the roots of 
his hair. The hands under the lace ruffles were the 
most beautiful that ever had been given to a man, 
even to as small a man as this. They were white and 
strong and delicate, with pointed fingers wide apart, 
and filbert nails. North knew them well, for they were 
the hands of the man whom he admired above all men 
in the history of his country. But until to-night he 
had seen them on canvas only, in the Treasury Department of the United States. His feeling of terror 
passed, and he sat forward eagerly. 

" The little lion," he said caressingly, for the man 
before him might have been his son, although he had 
been in his tomb with a bullet in his heart for nearly a 
century. But he looked so young, so restless, so indomitable, that the years slipped out of the century, and 
Hamilton once more was the most brilliant ornament 
of a country which had never ceased to need him. 

" Yes," he said brightly, " here I am, sir, and you 



 

see me at last. This is that one moment in the life- 
time of the few when the spirit burns through the 
flesh and recognizes another spirit vvho has lost that 
dear and necessary medium. I have been with you a 
great deal in your life, but you never have been able to 
see me until to-night." He gave his head an impa- 
tient toss. " How I have wished I were alive during 
the last three or four months ! " he exclaimed. " Not 
that I could have accomplished what you could not, 
sir, but it would have been such a satisfaction to have 
been able to make the effort, and then, when I failed, 
to tell democracy what I thought of it." 

North smiled. All sense of the supernatural had left 
him. His soul and Hamilton's were face to face ; that 
was the one glorified fact. "I have been tempted 
several times lately to wish that we had your aristocratic republic," he said, " and that I were the head 
and centre of it. I have felt a strong desire to wring 
the neck of that many-headed nuisance called ' the 
people,' and proceed as if it were where the God of 
nations intended those incapable of governing should 
be and remain without protest." 

" Oh, yes, you are an aristocrat. That is the reason 
I have enjoyed the society of your mind all these years. 
You were so like me in many ways when you were my 
age, and since then I seem to have grown older with 
you. I died so young. But in you, in the last twenty 
years, I seem to have lived on. You have built an iron 
wall all round those terrible fires of your youth, and 
roofed it over. It is only now and then that a panel 
melts and the flame leaps out ; and the panel is so 
quickly replaced ! I too should have conquered myself like that and made fewer and fewer mistakes. 



 

God knows what I might not have been able to do 
for my country. I have been mad to leap into the 
arena often enough." 

"You are not dead. No man is, whose inspiration 
lives on. More than one of us would be of shorter 
stature and shorter gait if we never had had your ac- 
complishment to ponder over. And as to what the 
nation would have been without you " 

"Yes!" cried Hamilton. "Yes! How can any 
man of ability submit to death without protest, shrug 
his shoulders cynically, and say that no man's disap- 
pearance causes more than a whirl of bubbles on the 
surface, that the world goes on its old gait undisturbed, 
and does as well with the new as the old ? Look at 
Great Britain. She hasn't.a single great man in all her 
eleven million square miles to lead her. That is answer enough to a theory which some men are sincere 
enough in believing. This country always has needed 
great leaders, and sometimes she has had them and 
sometimes not. The time is coming when she will 
need them as she has not done since the days when 
three or four of us set her on her feet." 

North stood up suddenly and looked down on Hamilton. " What are we coming to ? " he asked abruptly. 
"Monarchy?" 

The guest tapped the toe of his little slipper with the 
tips of his beautiful fingers. He laughed gayly. " I can 
see only a little farther ahead than your own far-pene- 
trating brain, sir. What do you think?" 

" As I walked home to-night, the situation possessed 
my mind, which by some process of its own seemed to 
develop link after link in coming events. It seemed to 
me that I saw a thoroughly disorganized people, un- 


