This I saw clearly, but as we broke into a gallop across the clover,
the colours ran like tinted fires; the dull reds and blues of the
Indians, the shimmer on gorgets and buckles, the rippling flags; yet
it seemed as I flew past that I had seen a face up there which I knew
well yet did not know, like those familiar eyes that look at us in
dreams. Surely it was not Silver Heels. But there was no time for
speculation now. Rub-a-dub-dub! Bang! Bang! Our brigade band was
marching past with our head groom playing a French horn very badly,
and old Norman McLeod a-fifing it, wrong foot foremost, which caused
Sir William to mutter "damn!" and rub his nose in mortification.
  [Illustration: "'SILVER HEELS!' I STAMMERED"]
"Hay-foot! Straw-foot!" simpered a cornet of dragoons behind me, and I
turned on him, and gave him a look.
"Did you say you were hungry?" I whispered, backing my horse gently
against the horse of the insolent cornet.
"Hungry?" he stammered.
"You mentioned hay, sir," I said, fiercely.
He turned red as a pippin but did not reply.
Swallowing my anger and my shame for our militia yokels, I glared at
the head of Colonel Butler's regiment, now passing, and was comforted,
for the clod-hoppers marched like regulars with a solid double rank of
fifers shrilling out "Down, Derry, down!" as smart as you please.
After them came the green-coated varlets, with a good round stench of
the stables from their ranks, yet footing it proudly, and their fifes
ringing a barbarous tune which is lately somewhat in vogue among us,
the same being called "Yankee Doodle."
Followed our three companies of Royal Americans, drums beating "The
Huron," a most warming march and loudly applauded by the long lines of
country folk and Indians, sitting on the stone walls; and after them
the inharmonious regiment in yellow and red, with two men drunk and a
dog-fight in the rear, soberly observed by my Lord Dunmore, who laid a
bet with our Governor, and lost on the spotted dog, they say.
There was a sham battle of the troops, too; half a gill to every fifth
man, and fifty pounds for the cannon on the hill, which cost Sir
William a pretty penny, our Governor refusing to allow for the powder
burned. However, it was a fine pageant, and pleased all; and I was
sorry when the last cartridge was spent and the brigade band played,
"God Save the King."
We followed Sir William to the pavilion, dismounting there to ascend
the stairs and pay our respects to the Governor and to Lord Dunmore.
"Come with me, Michael," said Sir William, wiping his face with his
hanker till it glistened; and I followed the Baronet into the
enclosure.
Lord Dunmore was tricked out like a painted actor, neither old nor
young, but too white and pink and without any red blood in him, as far
as I could see. He wore a wig--it was said he possessed twenty and
valued at six thousand pounds--and his fingers, which I could see
through the lace on his cuffs, were like white bird's claws loaded
with jewels.
When Lord Dunmore saw Sir William he fell a-tapping his snuff-box and
bobbing and smiling, nor did he rise until we had made our way to him.
"Lud! Lud!" he said, and fell a-simpering, with hands raised in
feigned amazement at the magnificence of the review. "Lud! Lud! Sir
William! A gallant fête! A brave defilé! Militia, not regulars, you
say! Vive Dieu, Sir William, a most creditable entraining!
Permettez--mes compliments le plus distinguée!"
"My aide-de-camp, Lord Dunmore," said Sir William, bluntly; "your
Lordship will remember Captain Cardigan who died before Quebec? His
son, my Lord!--and my dear kinsman, Michael Cardigan, cornet in the
Borderers."
"Strike me!" simpered Lord Dunmore. "Strike me, now, Sir William! He
has his father's eyes--Vrai Dieu! Curse me, if he has not his father's
eyes, Sir William!"
At this remarkable discovery I bowed and said it was an honour to be
considered like my father in any particular.
"Burn me!" murmured his Lordship, in an ecstasy at my natural
response. "Burn me, Sir William, what a wit he has, now!" And he
peeped at me, squeezing his eyes into two weak slits, and laid his
snuff-box against his nose. Lord! What a false face he pulled at me!
Apparently surfeited with admiration, he invited Sir William to take
snuff with him, then turning to Governor Tryon, who had just come into
the stall, he fell to smirking and exclaiming and vapouring about God
knows what, until I, weary and cloyed, glanced around me at the crowd
on the seats above us.
There were a hundred pair of bright eyes fixed on us, and without
vanity I perceived a few to meet mine, but the faces were not
distinct, and I found it disconcerting.
Then a deep, pleasant voice sounded close beside me, and looking
around, I saw our Governor Tryon smiling at me.
"I knew your father," he said; "it was a privilege, Mr. Cardigan, and
one I take advantage of to address the son of so gallant a gentleman."
I replied warmly and gratefully, yet with military deference, and I
saw Sir William observing me, well pleased at my bearing.
"In these times," said the Governor, clasping his cloak over his
epaulets, "it is a pleasure to meet with modest loyalty in the younger
generation. Loyal to parent, loyal to King! I predict we shall hear
from you, Mr. Cardigan."
"Please God, sir," I replied, blushing scarlet; for into my mind crept
that wavering doubt which, since Sir William had talked with me,
haunted me like a shadow.
The Governor passed by with his clanking dragoons, among them the
young jackanapes who had presumed to sneer at our yeomanry, and we
delivered a pair of scornful glances at each other which crossed like
broadswords.
And now my Lord Dunmore's boudoir on wheels drove up, and his purring
Lordship minced off in the midst of his flame-coloured Virginians, for
all the world like a white cat dancing through hell fire.
The ladies were rising, tying on sun-masks, standing in rows between
the seats, and the officers loitered and whispered and played with
their snuff-boxes, while the silent Mohawk chiefs looked on, standing
like statues till the crowd gave them their liberty.
One lady there was, in a mask and silvery cloak, who looked at me so
long through the eye-holes that I felt my heart begin a-beating; and
another, too, in mask and rose mantle, who lifted the linen a trifle,
displaying a fresh, sweet, smiling mouth. This one in rose turned
twice to look at me, and it amused me to feel my heart go a-bumping
at my ribs so loud, for she did truly resemble Marie Livingston.
Sir William and Colonel Claus had joined Lord Dunmore in his coach;
Sir John and Colonel Butler attached themselves to our Governor Tryon.
I, abandoned, rode back to the Hall with a company of Virginians and
dragoons, wondering if ever I might acquire such horsemanship as the
Southerners displayed.
Coming to the Hall, I met Sir William, whose smiling face grew haggard
at sight of me, and he drew me apart, asking of news from Quider.
"He is not yet dead, sir," I replied, my heart aching for Sir William.
For a moment he stood staring at the ground, then bidding me report to
Mr. Duncan at the block-house, walked away to disguise his anxious
visage again with the oldest mask in the world--a smile.
That night Sir William provided two great banquets for our guests, one
at the court-house in Johnstown, the other at Johnson Hall.
The splendid banquet at the court-house was given to all the visiting
officers except Lord Dunmore, Governor Tryon, and their particular
aides. To it were invited the Virginians, the New-Yorkers, the
important Mohawk, Seneca, and Onondaga sachems, and chiefs of the Long
House. Also were bidden the officers of our Royal Americans, such
officers of the Border House as had come with Governor Tryon, and all
gentlemen of distinction who had brought their ladies.
Colonel Claus and his lady presided as host and hostess, representing
Sir William and Mistress Molly, and our brigade band played in the
gallery during the banquet, and later on the portico of the
court-house, where a great crowd of people had collected to cheer.
The other banquet was given at the same hour in our house, to honour
Lord Dunmore and Governor Tryon.
There were gathered in the hallway and on the stairs a vast company of
ladies and gentlemen when I came down from my little chamber to wait
on Sir William. Here was the great Earl of Dunmore in a ring of
fluttering ladies, peering, bobbing, tapping his snuff-box, preening
the lace on his cuffs--and I thought he resembled one of those
irksome restless birds from the Canaries in a painted cage.
There was our Governor Tryon in purple silk from head to foot, with
the broad sash and star on his breast, leaning over, hands clasped
behind his back, to whisper jest or flattery to a young girl who
tapped at him with her fan. There was my kinsman, Sir John Johnson,
with his indifferent eyes and ungracious carriage, and old Colonel
Butler watching the gay company as hawks, from sheer habit, watch
peacocks, meaning no attack. There also strolled my impudent dragoon
lad who had offended at the pavilion, and I will not deny he appeared
to be an elegant and handsome officer, possessing those marked
characteristics of fashion and assurance which one observes in all
gentlemen from the city of New York.
Making my way carefully amid rustling petticoats and a forest of
painted fans all waving like the wings of a swarm of moths drawn by
the candle-light, I passed Mistress Molly on the arm of Sir William,
touching my lips to her pretty fingers, which she held out to me
behind her back.
Next I encountered Mr. Butler and honoured him with a scowl, which
displayed my country breeding, it being the fashion among quality to
greet one's enemy with more elaborate courtesy than one accords to
friends.
People passed and repassed with laughter and whisper, and the scented
wind from their fans swept my cheek.
Suddenly it seemed as though the voice of Silver Heels sounded in my
ears, and for a moment I stared about me, astonished that she should
be here. But I could not find her. Then her voice sounded again, clear
as a pebbled spring in all that chatter, and turning, I saw it came
from a young girl standing behind me. She was very delicate and pretty
in her powder and patches, truly somewhat pale and lacking in
plumpness, but with a pair of great hazel eyes like Silver Heels's,
and the child's full lips. Certainly she had Silver Heels's voice, and
her trick of widening her eyes, too, for now she perceived me, and--
"Why, Micky!" she cried.
"Silver Heels!" I stammered, striving to believe my eyes. What miracle
of miracles had set her to grow tall and turn into a woman in a single
week?
I stared almost piteously at her, trying to find my own familiar
comrade in this whispering shower of silk and ribbon, this delicate
stranger, smiling breathlessly at me with sparkling teeth set on the
edge of her painted fan.
In her triumph she laughed that laugh of silver which sounded ever of
woodlands and birds, the same laugh, the same gray eyes, and the same
satin fingers laid on my wrist.
"Silly," she whispered, "I told you so. And it has come true; my gown
is silk, my stockings silk, my shoes are Paddington's make and silken
to the soles!"
"How did you grow?" I gasped.
"Have I grown? Oh, my gown and shoes count, too, and my hair rolled by
Betty till I vowed she meant to scalp me! See my egrettes! Are they
straight, Micky?"
Ere I could attempt to compose my thoughts, comes mincing my impudent
dragoon, who seemed to know her, for he brought her a ribbon to tie
above her elbow, explaining it was a new conceit from New York.
"It's this way," he explained, utterly ignoring my presence; "I tie
this bow of blue above your elbow, so!--with your gracious consent.
Now for a partner to lead you to the table I seek some gentleman and
tie a blue bow to his sword-hilt."
"Pray tie it to Mr. Cardigan's," said Silver Heels, mischievously. "I
have much to say to him for his peace of mind."
The dragoon and I, face to face, regarded each other with menacing
composure.
"To deprive you of such an honour, sir," said he, coolly, "I protest
reduces me to despair; but the light blue bows have already been
awarded, Mr. Cardigan."
Instinctively I glanced at his own sword-hilt, and there fluttered a
light blue ribbon. At the same moment I perceived that Silver Heels
had been perfectly aware of this.
Mortified as I was, and stinging under the dragoon's impudence, I
controlled myself sufficiently to congratulate him and courteously
deplore my own ill fortune, without a grimace, though it stuck in my
throat to say it.
"Let not your lady hear that!" said Silver Heels, with her fan hiding
her lips. "How do you know, sir, which partner fate and Mr. Bevan may
allot you?"
Mr. Bevan and I regarded each other in solemn hostility.
"May I have the honour of attaching this ribbon to your hilt, sir?" he
asked, stiffly.
"You may, sir," said I, still more stiffly, "if it is necessary."
He tied a red bow-knot to my hilt; we bowed to each other, then with a
smile and a word to Silver Heels which I did not catch, he saluted us
again and strolled off with his nose in the air and his hands full of
ribbons of every hue--the fop!
"Who is that pitiful ass?" I said, turning to Silver Heels.
"Why, Michael!" she protested, reproachfully, yet smiling, too.
"Oh, if he's one of your friends, I ask indulgence," said I, mad
enough to pluck the blue knot from her arm.
"Truly, Michael," she sniffed, "you are still very young."
She seated herself by the big clock; I sat beside her, sullenly, and
for a time I peered at her sideways. Verily, the impossible had
overtaken us; she appeared to be fully as tall as half the ladies
gathered around us; her self-possession and obvious indifference to me
completed my growing discomfort. I looked at her small, silk-covered
toes pushing out under her petticoat.
"Is the dandelion juice on them yet?" I asked, with piteous
playfulness.
"Don't talk like that!" she said, sharply, drawing her feet in. And
with that petulant movement the playmate I had so often bullied,
slipped away from me forever, leaving in her place a dainty thing of
airs and laces to flout me, whom I knew not, but whom I meant to be
avenged on; for at moments, as I sat there, I could have yelled aloud
in my vexation.
Lord! how they all ogled her, and came a-mincing, gentlemen and
ladies, old and young, and I heard whispers around me that she was a
beauty and would be rich one day. My Lord Dunmore, too, came a-dancing
pit-pat! till I thought to hear his bones creak inside his white silk;
and the dragoon jackanapes was there, having tied up everything with
his ribbons save his own long ears, and it infuriated me to see him
standing guard protector over Silver Heels, with jealous smiles for
all who approached.
Now what the devil had seized all these gentlemen to set them smirking
and vapouring over Silver Heels, I did not know, or rather, I knew
perfectly well, because it was as plain as a Mohawk moccasin on a
spotted trail that Silver Heels had suddenly become a beauty. Even I
could see that. Granted her bosom lacked somewhat in fulness, granted
a childish leanness of arm and neck, granted even a pallor which
adorned her not, and which, to tell the truth, I knew came from
fright, there was something in the frail moulding of her that drew
eyes, something in the arm's slim contours that touched even me.
I might have taken a pride in her, had not all these bobbing pigeons
come crowding about to share openly my unconfessed admiration. But
they bowed and strutted and posed and flattered, pressing closer until
she was shut from my sight by a circle of coat-skirts, tilted swords,
and muscular calves in silken stockings.
Presently our fiddlers and bassoons started the "Huron;" there was a
flutter to find ribbons that matched, and a world of bustle and
laughter, with gentlemen and ladies comparing colours and bowing and
curtseying without regard to neighbors' toes and petticoats--the
tittering popinjays!
Truly, if this mode of choosing one's lady prevailed in New York, I at
least found it smacked something of silliness and French frivolity.
I had now been crowded up against our tall clock in the hall, and
stood there striving to get a glimpse of Silver Heels, completely
forgetting that somewhere in the crush a lady with a scarlet ribbon on
her arm might be waiting for me. And doubtless I should have remained
there, gnawing my lip, till doomsday, had not Silver Heels espied me
and come fluttering through the crowd with:
"Oh, Micky! Have you seen your lady? Your old friend Marie Livingston!
But she is wedded now; she is that pretty Mrs. Hamilton from Saint
Sacrement. Oh, you lucky boy! All the officers are raving over her!
But I asked her if she remembered you, and she said she didn't, so
there!"
"Silver Heels," I began, with the first appealing glance I had ever
bestowed on a woman; "Silver Heels, I want to tell you something."
I do not believe she was listening, or perhaps the chatter around us
drowned my voice, which was husky and over-fond, for she cried: "You
must not detain me, Michael. Mr. Bevan is waiting for me."
And with that she was gone into the whirl, leaving me high and dry
against my clock, and furious over I knew not what. For truly I myself
did not know what it was I had been about to say to Silver Heels. As
for this Mrs. Hamilton, it madded me to hear of her. I had long
forgotten Marie Livingston--save as a name to goad Silver Heels
withal.
Mrs. Hamilton, forsooth! What the foul fiend had I to do with another
man's wife, whether Hamilton or Smith or Jones I cared not, while that
ape of a New-Yorker had set himself in my rightful place beside Silver
Heels! And what stabbed deepest was that Silver Heels found pleasure
in his foolish company--ay, plainly preferred him to me--the
ungrateful minx! I prayed fervently she might live to repent it. I
pictured her remorse when she came to her senses. And in a moment more
I had slipped into one of my waking dreams wherein justice was dealt
out by the jugful all around, and I emerged from some scenes of
carnage, calm, triumphant, gently forgiving Silver Heels the
accumulated sins of her misspent life.
Sullenly dreaming there under the tall clock, and happening to lift my
eyes towards heaven for some of its spare vengeance, I perceived on
the stairs that same lady who had half raised her sun-mask at the
review--I mean the one in the rose mantle, not the other in the
silvery cloak, whom I now knew had been Silver Heels.
Down the stairs rustled my lady of the rose mantle, finger-tips
playing a tattoo over the mahogany balustrade, and on her lips a
smile, as I fancied, though later I came to know that it was only the
natural expression of her mouth. Something in my memory stirred at
that smiling face.
Now she was looking straight at me, with that delicate curve of her
lips which sets men thinking, and at the same moment I perceived that
she wore my colours. Marie Livingston! I should never have known her;
so we were quits, the affected minx! This was Mrs. Hamilton!--this
bright-eyed girl with her smooth rose-petal skin and her snowy hand on
the balustrade. Could I be mistaken? Surely she wore my colours! I
glanced at the knot on my sword-hilt, then pressed through the throng
to the stairway. Now at last I could pay Silver Heels in her own
wampum, and I meant to do it under her very nose.
I met Mrs. Hamilton at the foot of the stairs, but she did not appear
to see me. Truly she was a miracle of innocence not to have perceived
her colours on my hilt, or perhaps she was over-timid. So I addressed
her reassuringly and made her a bow that I knew must be impressive.
However, I found her less confused than I, for she insisted on
matching ribbons very carefully, which hurt my pride somewhat. But
when she could no longer doubt that our ribbons matched, she made me a
whimsical reverence, and took my arm with a smile, and a cool: "Oh, I
faintly recall you now, Mr. Cardigan. How you have grown!"
Out into the wilderness of silver and candle-light we passed, fiddle
and bassoon a-playing with might and main, and we stood behind our
chairs while my Lord Dunmore chattered a blessing, then seated
ourselves amid a gale of whispers.
Through the flare of the candles I saw Brant and Sir John Johnson near
us, and also that filthy Indian, Red Jacket, both hands already in a
dish of jelly, a-gobbling and grunting to himself, which sent Lord
Dunmore into peals of shrill laughter, though Sir William took no
notice. Presently I perceived Silver Heels and Mr. Bevan, nearly
opposite to us, and strove to catch her eye. But Silver Heels took
small notice of me; her cheeks had gone red with her first sip of
wine, and she sat there rosy and silent, head a little lowered, while
that insufferable coxcomb whispered into her ear, and smirked, and
played with his wine-glass till the very sight of the man sickened me.
Stung to the quick by her indifference to my presence, smarting in my
fancied isolation, I resolved to show her that I cared not a whit for
her or her dragoon. So I loosened my tongue and set it wagging so
smartly that I think I astonished Mrs. Hamilton, who had been
observing Mr. Bevan with her fixed smile. At any rate, she gave me a
long, pleasant stare, and presently her fixed smile became very sweet
and pretty, although I thought a trifle mocking.
"Is it not amusing?" she said, coolly; "here you sit with me, when you
would give your tow-head to be prattling into Mistress Warren's ears;
and here sit I at twiddle-thumbs, devising vengeance on Mr. Bevan, who
belongs to me!"
Perplexed and disconcerted, I found no words to answer such an amazing
sally. It shamed me, too. Perhaps my countenance had betrayed me, but
her confession concerning Mr. Bevan was a bold one, and not at all to
my taste.
"I thought you had a husband," said I, with boyish bluntness.
She coloured up like fire for a moment, and I was sorry I spoke, but I
had my pity for my pains, for the next instant she was laughing at me
as though I were a ninny, and I could discover no reason for her
mirth.
"Please tell me your Christian name," she said, sweetly. "I really do
desire to recall it."
"My name is Michael," said I, suspiciously.
"Was it not Saint Michael who so soundly spanked the devil?" she
asked, with her innocent smile. "Truly, Mr. Cardigan, you were well
named to chastise the wicked with such sturdy innocence!"
I fumed inwardly, for I had no mind to be considered a gaby among
women.
"I am perfectly aware, madam, that it is the fashion for charming
women to turn boys' heads," said I, "and I wish you might turn Mr.
Bevan's head till you twisted it off his neck!"
"I'd rather twist yours," she said, looking up from her plate of
broiled troutlings.
"Twist it off?" I asked, curiously.
"I--I don't know. Look at me, Mr. Cardigan."
I met her pretty eyes.
"No, not quite off," she said, thoughtfully. "You are a nice boy, but
not very bright. If you were you would pay me compliments instead of
admonition. Perhaps you will after the Madeira. Perhaps you will even
make love to me."
"I will do it before the Madeira," said I. "You are certainly the
prettiest woman in Johnson Hall to-night, and if you've a mind for
vengeance on your faithless dragoon yonder, pray take me for the
instrument, Mrs. Hamilton."
"Hush!" she said, with a startled smile. "I may take you at your
word."
"I am taking you at yours," said I, recklessly, and loud enough for
Silver Heels to hear.
In the dull din of voices around us I heard Silver Heels's laugh, but
the laugh was strained, and I knew she was looking at me and
listening.
"I don't know what you mean," said Mrs. Hamilton, reddening, "but I
know you to be a somewhat indiscreet young man who handles a woman as
he would a club to beat his rival to the earth withal."
"I mean," said I, in a low voice, "to make love to you and so serve us
both. Look at me, Mrs. Hamilton."
"I will not," she said, between her teeth.
"Tell me," I pleaded, "what is your Christian name. I do really wish
to know, Mrs. Hamilton."
Spite of the angry red in her cheeks she laughed outright, glanced
sideways at me, and laughed again, so blithely that I thought I had
truly never seen such careless ripened healthy beauty in any woman.
"My name is Marie Hamilton, of Saint Sacrement, please you, kind sir,"
she lisped, with an affected simper which set us both a-laughing
again.
"If you ever had your heart stormed you had best prepare for no
quarter now!" I said, coolly.
"Insolent!" she murmured, covering her bright cheeks with her hands,
and giving me a glance in which amusement, contempt, curiosity, and
invitation were not inharmoniously blended.
The Madeira had now turned my blood to little rivers of fire, I being
but lately enfranchised from the children's pewters and small-beer;
but yet I am so made that never then nor since have the delicate
vapours of wines stifled such wits as I possess. It is my conscience
only that wine dulls.
So amid the low tumult, the breezy gush of whispers, the laughter, and
the crystal tinkle of silver and glass, I made indiscreet,
clear-headed love to Mistress Marie Hamilton, retreating under her
cruel satire, rallying in the bright battery of her eyes, charging the
citadel of her heart with that insincere and gay abandon which
harasses, disconcerts, and piques a woman who understands better how
to repel true passion.
"In what school have you been taught to make love, sir?" she said, at
last, breathless, amused, yet exasperated.
"In the school of necessity, madam," I replied.
"I pray you teach something of your art to Mr. Bevan," said she,
spitefully, over her fan's silk edge.
"I am teaching him now," said I.
It was true. The dragoon was staring at Mrs. Hamilton in undisguised
displeasure. As for Silver Heels, she observed us with a scornful
amazement which roused all the cruelty in me, though I knew I was
losing her innocent belief in me and tearing my respectability to
shreds under her clear gray eyes.
For a bud from Mrs. Hamilton's caushet I threw away the pure faith of
my little comrade; for a touch of her hand I blighted her trust; and
laughed as I did it.
Only once was Mrs. Hamilton off her guard, when my earnest acting had
suddenly become real to me--a danger, I have since found, that no
actors are too clever to escape sometimes.
"If for one moment you could be in earnest," she ventured, with a
smile.
I was on guard again before she finished, and she saw it, but was too
wise to betray regret or anger for her mistake.
"Pray, cease," she said; "you weary me, Mr. Cardigan. The coldest
among us reflect fire, even though it be as false as the dead fires of
the moon. You are prettily revenged; let us have peace."
Now the healths flew thick and fast from Sir William and Lord Dunmore,
the titled toast-masters, and we drank his Majesty George the Third in
bumpers which set the Indians a-howling like timber wolves at
Candlemas.
Indeed, our forest of lights might have served for the Romish feast
itself.
Toast followed toast in a tempest of cheers, through which the yelps
of the Indians sounded faintly. I saw Brant take a silver plate and a
solid candle-stick from under Red Jacket's shirt, while that great
orator, very drunk, sat a-hacking the cloth with a table-knife. I saw
my Lord Dunmore, all in white silk and blazing with stars, rise to
pledge the ladies, and stand swaying and leering and gumming his glass
till it upset on his chin, and the jewels in his lace front dripped
wine.
Mistress Molly we pledged with a shout, and she returned our courtesy
with gentle gravity, but her eyes were for Sir William alone.
Then Lord Dunmore gave:
"Our lovely heiress, Mistress Warren!" ending in a hiccough, and poor
Silver Heels, pale as a white blossom, half rose from her seat as
though to fly to Mistress Molly.
Red Jacket was on his feet now, slavering and mouthing and hacking at
the air, and Brant and I dragged him out into the garden where his
squaw took charge, leading him lurching and howling down the hill.
Before I returned, the ladies were in the hallway and the card-room,
the gentlemen following in groups from the table, some shamefully
unsteady of leg, and feebly scattering snuff in amiable invitation to
their neighbours.
But Sir William had disappeared, and I hunted vainly for him until I
encountered Mrs. Hamilton, who directed me to the library, whither,
she averred, Sir William, Governor Tryon, and Lord Dunmore had
retired.
"State secrets, Master Michael," she added, saucily. "You had best
find Mr. Bevan and start those same lessons we have discussed."
"Let me instruct him by proxy," said I, drawing her under the stairs,
and ere she could protest or escape, I kissed her lips three separate
times.
She was in tears in an instant, which I had not counted on, and it
needed my most earnest acting to subdue her indignation.
I had my arm around her, and my coat was all powder and rouge, when
something made me look around. There was Silver Heels going towards
the pantry with Betty, doubtless to pouch some sweets for her black
nurse. Her head was steadily lowered, her lashes rested on her cheeks,
but face and neck and bosom were glowing in a deep colour, and I knew
she had perceived us, and that she despised us with all the strength
of her innocent soul.
Stunned with the conviction that I had gone too far, I made out to
play my miserable farce to an end and led Mrs. Hamilton out where Mr.
Bevan could pounce upon her, which he did with an insolence that I had
little spirit to notice or resent.
Then I hastened to the pantry where Silver Heels stood before the
rifled dishes, hands to her face, and black Betty a-petting her. But
at sight of me she turned scarlet and shrank back, nor would she
listen to one word.
"What yoh done to mah li'l Miss Honey-bee?" exclaimed Betty,
wrathfully, shaking her turban till the rings in her big ears jingled
like sledge-bells in December. "I done 'spec' yoh, Mars Ca'digan, suh!
Yaas, I 'spec' yoh is lak all de young gemmen!"
Then the old witch began a-crooning over Silver Heels with deadly
glances at me:
"Doan yoh cyah, li'l Miss Honey-bee, doan yoh mind nuff'n! Huh! Had
mah s'picions 'bout dat young Mars Ca'digan. Doan yoh mind him no
moh'n a blue-tail fly!"
"Very well," said I, angrily, "you can do as you choose, and think
what you like. As for your fool of a dragoon, Mrs. Hamilton will
settle him, and if she doesn't I will."
My foolish outburst seemed to rouse a panther in Silver Heels, and for
a moment I believed she meant to strike me. But the storm swept over,
leaving her with limbs a-quiver and eyes wet.
"You have spoiled my first pleasure," she said, in a low, trembling
voice. "You have conducted like a clown and a libertine where all
beheld you making shameful love to a wedded woman! Oh, Betty, Betty,
send him away!" she sobbed, burying her head in the black woman's
breast.
"Silver Heels," I said, choking, "can you not understand that it is I
who wish to wed you?"
Again the panther blazed in her gray eyes, but her lips were bloodless
as she gasped: "Oh, the insult! Betty--do you hear? He would marry me
out of pity! That is twice he has said it!"
"I said it before because I would not have you marry Mr. Butler," said
I, wincing at her scorn. "But I say it now because--because--I love
you, Silver Heels."
All her horror of me was in her eyes. I saw it and set my teeth hard,
hopeless now forever, even of her careless affection.
And so I left her there, with Betty's arms around her, and the hot
scorn in her eyes. But as I went away, chilled with self-contempt and
mortification, heedless, utterly careless what I did to further
degrade myself in her eyes, came black Betty a-waddling to pluck me by
the sleeve and whisper:
"Doan yoh go to wed wif nobody, Mars Ca'digan, suh! Doan yoh go foh to
co't nobody. Mah li'l chile--mah li'l Miss Honey-bee ain't done growed
up yet, suh. Bime-by she'll know moh'n she 'specs 'bout gemmens, suh."
But my evil nature was uppermost, and I laughed and bade Betty mind
her own affairs, leaving her there grumbling and mumbling about "fool
boys" and "li'l fool Honey-bees," till the clatter and din from the
card-room shut her voice from my ears.
CHAPTER VIII
When I came to the library the door stood partly open, and I could see
a party of gentlemen lounging within, and somewhat boisterous over
their wine and filberts; so thinking no harm to enter, I walked in and
sat down on the arm of a leather chair by the window.
Nobody had observed me, however, and I was on the point of
respectfully making known my presence to Sir William, when I saw
Walter Butler rise and shut the door, taking the additional precaution
to lock it. Turning to rejoin the company around the table, his dark
golden eyes fell upon me, and he stood still, one hand tightening on
the back of his chair.
"Well?" inquired Sir William, testily, looking up at Mr. Butler. "When
you are seated, sir, I will continue, unless I weary the company."
"If Mr. Cardigan has been here all this time, I, for one, was not
aware of it," observed Mr. Butler, coldly, never taking his unblinking
eyes off me.
I began to explain to Sir William that I had but that moment came in,
when he interrupted querulously, and motioned Mr. Butler to be seated.
"Tush! tush! Let be, let be, Captain Butler! My young kinsman has my
confidence, and it is time he should know something of what passes in
his own country."
"At sixteen," observed my Lord Dunmore, with a maudlin chuckle, "I
knew a thing or two, I'll warrant you--curse me if I didn't, Sir
William!"
Sir John Johnson regarded me without interest; Colonel Claus never
even troubled to give me a glance, but I saw the hawk's eyes of Walter
Butler watching me steadily.
"To resume," began Sir William, but Lord Dunmore broke out:
"At sixteen I had outlived you all--pierce me if I hadn't, now, Sir
William! Scratch me raw! if I hadn't put a finger in the world's
pudding, a-stirring the plums at sixteen, by God!"
"Doubtless, my Lord," said Sir William, dryly. "And now, gentlemen,
concerning our show of force here, I have only to say--and I say it
with all respect and submission to Governor Tryon--that I do not
believe it will produce that salutary effect on the discontented in
New York and Boston which Governor Tryon expects."
"Gad! I do expect it!" said Tryon, briskly. "Look you, Sir William,
you and your militia dominate the county, and these rascals must be
brought to understand it. Trust me, messires, the damned Yankees will
know of this militia display before the post rides into Boston!"
"Add our Mohawks to the militia," observed Walter Butler, in a
colourless voice.
Sir William's jaw was set hard, but he said nothing.
"Add the whole Six Nations," suggested Lord Dunmore, leering at Sir
William; "come, now! curse me blind! but we shall have the whole Six
Nations, and that filthy little Red Jacket to boot."
"My Lord," replied Sir William, "if it lay with your Lordship you
would have Red Jacket against you."
This blunt rebuke almost sobered Lord Dunmore for a moment, and he
asked Sir William what he meant.
"I mean," said the Baronet, "that you mocked this powerful chief, Red
Jacket, at my table to-night, and he knew it. That is not the way to
gain allies, my Lord."
"The drunken, guzzling son of a slut!" bawled Lord Dunmore, "d'ye
think I care what the bandy-legged little beast thinks?"
"I only know," replied Sir William, curtly, "that if your Lordship has
so conducted in Virginia, the King cannot look for any Indian support
in that colony."
"Oh, choke me, Sir William, but that's too bad now!--pinch me blue if
it isn't!" protested Lord Dunmore in a pet. Then a subtle smirk
settled on his waxen cast of a face and he winked his weak eyes at
Walter Butler, a proceeding observed by me and by Sir William.
Not for a moment now did I doubt that Lord Dunmore had set Colonel
Cresap to drive the Cayugas into a hatred for the colonies, nor did I
doubt but that Walter Butler knew of this plan, perhaps had even
connived at it.
Sir William, too, had come to some quick conclusion, for I saw the
crease deepen around his jaws, and his steady eyes strike fire. But he
said nothing to interrupt Lord Dunmore, who had now launched into a
gust of incoherent words and protestations and hiccoughs, to which all
listened sneeringly until his voice ended with a hollow buzz inside
his wine-glass.
There came a silence, broken by the clear sarcastic tones of Sir
William.
"I beg permission to submit to Governor Tryon the opinion of a country
Baronet--for what that opinion may be worth."
"With pleasure," said Governor Tryon, cordially, looking up from the
plate of nuts he was picking.
"And this is my opinion," continued Sir William, "that, firstly, the
disaffected classes in Boston and New York will not care a fig for our
conference here, nor for our show of militia; that, secondly, if they
should once entertain a suspicion that England, in the event of war,
proposes to employ savages as allies to subdue rebellion, we would
have to-morrow the thirteen colonies swarming like thirteen hives to
sting us all to death--ay--and there would not be an Indian left twixt
here and the Ohio!"
"What would become of them?" piped up Lord Dunmore, so innocently that
I saw Governor Tryon pass his hand over his mouth to conceal a smile.
But Walter Butler's passionless voice was sounding now, and I saw Sir
William turn his head to lose no gesture or shade of meaning.
"It is come to the point where either the rebels are to win over the
Indians, or where we must take measures to secure their services. I am
not in a position to inform you, gentlemen, as to the actual existing
conditions in the Indian Department. That, Sir William can do better
than any one in America. Therefore, I beg Sir William to kindly make
it clear to us what chances we have to win the support of the Six
Nations--in the event of a rebel rising against the King's authority."
The tangled knot was cut, the cat had sprung from the bag. Yet nobody
by glance or word or gesture appeared to be aware of it.
Sir William's manner was perfectly composed, though that deep crease
binding his chin deepened, and his brows bent in towards his nose as
he rested his chin on his hand and spoke, eyes fixed on his
wine-glass:
"Captain Butler believes that it has come to this: that either those
in authority or the disaffected must seek allies among these savage
hordes which hang like thunder-clouds along our frontiers. Gentlemen,
I am not of that opinion. I have said openly, and I care not who knows
it, that if war must come between England and these colonies, let it
be a white man's war; in mercy, let it be a war between two civilized
peoples, and not a butchery of demons!
"I do believe--and I say so solemnly and before God--that it is
possible to so conduct that these savages will remain neutral if war
must come. Ay, more! I will answer for them!"
He lifted his eyes and looked straight at Lord Dunmore, raising his
voice slightly, but betraying no passion.
"And, gentlemen, as I am his Majesty's intendant of Indian affairs in
North America, I shall now do all that I can to pacify my wards, to
keep them calm and orderly in the event of a war which I, for one,
regard with horror. Were I to do otherwise, I must account to my King
for a trust betrayed, and I must answer also to Him whom King and
subject alike account to."
On Walter Butler's lips a sneer twitched; my Lord Dunmore wiped his
bleared eyes with a rag of lace and stared at everybody with drunken
gravity.
"I know not," said Sir William, slowly, "what true loyalty may be if
it be not to save the honour of our King, and rebuke those who seek to
tarnish it. And if there are now those among his counsellors or
deputies who urge him to seek these savages as allies, I say it is a
monstrous thing and an inspiration from hell itself."
He swung on his elbow and fixed his eyes on Walter Butler.
"You, sir, know something of border war. How then can you propose to
let loose these Indians on the people of our colonies?"
"Lest they let loose these same savages on us," replied Mr. Butler,
calmly.
Sir William frowned.
"You do not know the colonists, Mr. Butler," he said. "What marvel
then that my Lord North should misunderstand them, and think to buy
their loyalty with tuppence worth o' tea?"
"Come, come, Sir William!" cried Governor Tryon, laughing, and plainly
anxious to break the tension ere sharp words flew. "Did I not know you
to the bone, sir, I should deem it my duty to catechise you concerning
the six articles of loyalty!"
"I, too, i' faith!" squeaked Lord Dunmore. "Skewer me! Sir William,
but you talk like a Boston preacher--ay--that you do, and--"
"Have done, sir!" cut in Sir William, with such bitter contempt that
the faces of all present sobered quickly. Even Governor Tryon glanced
uneasily at Lord Dunmore to see how he might swallow such a pill, but
that nobleman only blinked stupidly and sucked his thin lips, too
drunk to understand how like a lackey he had been silenced.
Sir John Johnson and Colonel Claus, deputies to Sir William in the
Indian Department, exchanged puzzled glances. But I noticed that Mr.
Butler never took his eyes from Sir William's darkening visage.
"There is one more matter," said the Baronet, "that I may be pardoned
for introducing here amid all the perplexities of the times; but it is
a matter touching on my own stewardship, and as that concerns my King,
I deem it necessary to broach it."
He turned again deliberately on Lord Dunmore.
"It has come to my knowledge that certain unauthorized people are
tampering with a distant tribe of my Cayuga Indians. I know not, nor
do I care, what the motives of these men may be, but I protest against
it, and I shall do all in my power--without infringing on the rights
or laws of a sister colony--to protect my Cayugas from unlawful
aggression!"
"Damme!" gurgled Lord Dunmore, passing his jewelled hand over his
befuddled head. "Damme, Sir William, d'ye mean to accuse me? Curse
me! Skewer me! Claw me raw! but it is not fair," he snivelled. "No, it
is not fair! Take your hands off my sleeve and be done a-twitching it,
Captain Butler! Damme! I never set Cresap on. Will ye have done
a-pinching my arm, Captain Butler?"
The ghastly humour of the exposure, the ludicrous self-conviction of
his tipsy Lordship--for nobody had mentioned Cresap--the startling
disclosure, too, of Walter Butler's interest in the plot--for that it
was a plot no longer could anybody doubt--cast a gloom over the
company.
Every man present understood what Cresap's aggression meant; no man
there dared acknowledge a desire for Cresap's success.
Then Sir William's sarcastic voice pierced the silence.
"I trust your Lordship would not believe that any gentleman present
could harbour suspicions of a foul conspiracy between your Lordship
and Captain Butler, to incite my Cayugas to attack white men!"
Walter Butler's slow eye rested on Lord Dunmore, on Sir William, and
then on me. But his bloodless visage never changed.
"Gentlemen, gentlemen, let us have harmony here at any cost,"
protested Governor Tryon, half in jest, half in earnest. "God knows I
have discord enough in New York town without seeking it among the
loyalists of this county. Nobody believes that my Lord Dunmore is
seeking trouble with your tame Indians, Sir William. If this fellow
Cresap, who is a notorious malcontent, too, be imposing on the
Cayugas, I doubt not that my Lord Dunmore will recall him and deal
with him severely."
"No, I won't! Claw my vitals if I do!" snapped his Lordship, in the
drunken sulks, and straightway fell a-squabbling with Walter Butler,
who had again laid a hand on his arm.
For Captain Butler knew his treachery had been discovered, and his
shameless impudence in openly attempting to muzzle his noble partner
in conspiracy passed all bounds of decency.
I saw the angry light glimmer in Sir William's eyes, and I knew it
boded no good to Walter Butler, as far as his hope of Silver Heels was
concerned. A fierce happiness filled me. So now, at last, Sir William
was discovering the fangs in his pet snake!
Lord Dunmore had succeeded in reversing a decanter of port over
himself and Colonel Claus, and the latter, mad as a wet cat, left the
room swearing audibly, while his playful Lordship threw a few glasses
after him and then collapsed in a soiled heap of silk and jewels,
feebly calling on "Billy Tryon" to try and "conduc like
er--er--gen'l-m'n, b' God!"
Sir William was steadily staring at Walter Butler; I, too, had my eye
on him; and, when he left the table to saunter towards the door, Sir
William rose immediately to follow him, and I after Sir William.
He saw us coming as he opened the door, and surveyed us with cool
effrontery as we joined him in the hallway.
"I shall not require your services hereafter as my secretary, Captain
Butler," said Sir William. "Will you kindly hand your keys to me?"
"At your command, Sir William," replied Mr. Butler, drawing the keys
from his pocket and presenting them with an ironical inclination.
The man's careless self-possession was marvellous considering he was
facing the man he had so vilely betrayed.
"Mr. Butler," said Sir William, with reddening face, "I consider
myself released from my consent to your union with my kinswoman, Miss
Warren!"
"As to that, sir," observed Captain Butler, cynically, "I shall take
my chances."
I heard what he said, but Sir William misunderstood him.
"It is your mischance, sir, to put no harsher interpretation on it.
But my decision is irrevocable, Mr. Butler, for I have destined Miss
Warren to a loyal man, my kinsman, Michael Cardigan!"
The spasm that jerked Mr. Butler's mouth into that ghastly grimace I
knew so well, was not lost on Sir William.
"I'll take that chance, too," said Mr. Butler, bowing.
"What do you mean, sir?" demanded Sir William, steadying his voice
with an effort.
But Walter Butler only replied with such glare at me that Sir William
involuntarily turned to find me, rigid, behind him. The next moment
Captain Butler passed noiselessly out into the starlight, wrapping
his black cloak around him.
Sir William followed him mechanically to the door, and I at his heels,
burning for a quarrel with Walter Butler, and awaiting only for Sir
William to return to the library, and leave me free to follow and
insult Mr. Butler for the treacherous villain he had proved himself.
But Sir William, seeing me slinking out, laid a hand on my shoulder
and spun me sharply round on my heels to look into my eyes.
"Now what the devil are you up to?" he broke out, half divining the
truth. "Michael! Michael! Don't be a fool! Are there not fools enough
here to-night?"
"No, sir," I answered, sheepishly.
"That is not the way to serve me, lad," said Sir William, roughly.
"Have I not sorrow enough without seeing you carried in here with a
hole in your breast, you meddlesome ass?"
"I have a certain score to clean off," I muttered.
"Oh," observed Sir William, coldly, "a selfish quarrel--eh? I was a
fond old fool to think I might count on you."
Tears started to my eyes; I could have bitten my tongue off.
"You can count on me, sir," I said, choking out the words. "I meant no
harm; I am not selfish, sir; I care only for you."
"I know it, lad," he said, kindly. "And mind, I do not rebuke your
spirit; I only ask you to learn discretion. This is no time to settle
