brass pistol. The pistol burst, and the barrel was all curled back like a
dandelion stem in water; he had it in his pocket to show. Archy Hawkins's
face was full of little blue specks from pouring powder on a coal and
getting it flashed up into his face when he was blowing the coal; some of
his eye-winkers were singed off. Jim Leonard had a rag round his hand, and
he said a whole pack of shooting-crackers had gone off in it before he
could throw them away, and burned the skin off; the fellows dared him to
let them see it, but he would not; and then they mocked him. They all said
there had never been such a Fourth of July in the Boy's Town before; and
Frank and Jake let them brag as much as they wanted to, and when the
fellows got tired, and asked them what they had done at Pawpaw Bottom, and
they said, "Oh, nothing much; just helped Dave Black haul rails," they set
up a jeer that you could hear a mile.
Then Jake said, as if he just happened to think of it, "And fought
bumblebees."
And Frank put in, "And took a shower-bath in the thunder-storm."
And Jake said, "And eat mulberries."
And Frank put in again, "And built a raft."
And Jake said, "And Dave got pulled into the mill-dam."
And Frank wound up, "And Jake and I got swept overboard."
By that time the fellows began to feel pretty small, and they crowded
round and wanted to hear every word about it. Then Jake and Frank
tantalized them, and said of course it was no Fourth at all, it was only
just fun, till the fellows could not stand it any longer, and then Frank
jumped up from where he was sitting on his front steps, and holloed out,
"I'll show you how Dave looked when his pole pulled him in," and he acted
it all out about Dave's pole pulling him into the water.
Jake waited till he was done, and then he jumped up and said, "I'll show
you how Frank and me looked when we got swept overboard," and he acted it
out about the limb of the tree scraping them off the raft while they were
laughing at Dave and not noticing.
As soon as they got the boys to yelling, Jake and Frank both showed how
they fought the bumblebees, and how the dogs got stung, and ran round
trying to rub the bees off against the ground, and your legs, and
everything, till the boys fell down and rolled over, it made them laugh
so. Jake and Frank showed how they ran out into the rain from the barn,
and stood in it, and told how good and cool it felt; and they told about
sitting up in the mulberry-tree, and how twenty boys could not have made
the least hole in the berries. They told about the quails and the
squirrels; and they showed how Frank had to keep whipping up his pony,
and how Jake's horse kept wheeling and running away; and some of the
fellows said they were going with them the next Fourth.
Hen Billard tried to turn it off, and said: "Pshaw! You can have that kind
of a Fourth any day in the country. Who's going up to the court-house yard
to see the fireworks?"
He and Archy Hawkins and the big boys ran off, whooping, and the little
fellows felt awfully, because their mothers had said they must not go.
Just then, Pony Baker's father came for him, and he said he guessed they
could see the fireworks from Frank's front steps; and Jake stayed with
Frank, and Frank's father came out, and his aunt and mother leaned out of
the window, and watched, while the Roman candles shot up, and the rockets
climbed among the stars.
They were all so much taken up in watching that they did not notice one of
the neighbor women who had come over from her house and joined them, till
Mrs. Baker happened to see her, and called out: "Why, Mrs. Fogle, where
did you spring from? Do come in here with Manda and me. I didn't see you,
in your black dress."
"No, I'm going right back," said Mrs. Fogle. "I just come over a minute to
see the fireworks--for Wilford; you can't see them from my side."
"Oh," said Mrs. Baker, softly. "Well, I'm real glad you came. You ought to
have heard the boys, here, telling about the kind of Fourth they had at
Pawpaw Bottom. I don't know when I've laughed so much."
"Well, I reckon it's just as well I wasn't here. I couldn't have helped in
the laughing much. It seems pretty hard my Wilford couldn't been having a
good time with the rest to-day. He was always such a Fourth-of-July boy."
"But he's happy where he is, Mrs. Fogle," said Mrs. Baker, gently.
"Well, I know he'd give anything to been here with the boys to-day--I
don't care where he is. And he's been here, too; I just know he has;
I've felt him, all day long, teasing at me to let him go off with your
Frank and Jake, here; he just fairly loved to be with them, and he never
done any harm. Oh, my, my! I don't see how I used to deny him."
She put up her apron to her face, and ran sobbing across the street again
to her own house; they heard the door close after her in the dark.
"I declare," said Mrs. Baker, "I've got half a mind to go over to her."
"Better not," said Pony Baker's father.
"Well, I reckon you're right, Henry," Mrs. Baker assented.
They did not talk gayly any more; when the last rocket had climbed the
sky, Jake Milrace rose and said in a whisper he must be going.
After he was gone, Frank told, as if he had just thought of it, about the
boy that had fooled them so, at Pawpaw Bottom; and he was surprised at the
way his mother and his Uncle Henry questioned him up about it.
"Well, now," she said, "I'm glad poor Mrs. Fogle wasn't here, or--" She
stopped, and her brother-in-law rose, with the hand of his sleepy little
son in his own.
"I think Pony had better say good-night now, while he can. Frank, you've
had a remarkable Fourth. Good-night, all. I wish I had spent the day at
Pawpaw Bottom myself."
Before they slept that night, Pony's mother said: "Well, I'd just as soon
you'd kept that story to yourself till morning, Henry. I shall keep
thinking about it, and not sleep a wink. How in the world do you account
for it?"
"I don't account for it," said Pony's father.
"Now, that won't do! What do you think?"
"Well, if it was one boy that saw the fourth boy it might be a simple
case of lying."
"Frank Baker never told a lie in his life. He couldn't."
"Perhaps Jake could, or Dave. But as they all three saw the boy at
different times, why, it's--"
"What?"
"It's another thing."
"Now, you can't get out of it that way, Henry. Do you believe that the
child longed so to be back here that--"
"Ah, who knows? There's something very strange about all that. But we
can't find our way out, except by the short-cut of supposing that nothing
of the kind happened."
"You can't suppose that, though, if all three of the boys say it did."
"I can suppose that they think it happened, or made each other think so."
Pony's mother drew a long sigh. "Well, I know what I shall always
think," she said.
VIII
HOW PONY BAKER CAME PRETTY NEAR
RUNNING OFF WITH A CIRCUS
Just before the circus came, about the end of July, something happened
that made Pony mean to run off more than anything that ever was. His
father and mother were coming home from a walk, in the evening; it was so
hot nobody could stay in the house, and just as they were coming to the
front steps Pony stole up behind them and tossed a snowball which he had
got out of the garden at his mother, just for fun. The flower struck her
very softly on her hair, for she had no bonnet on, and she gave a jump and
a hollo that made Pony laugh; and then she caught him by the arm and boxed
his ears.
"Oh, my goodness! It was you, was it, you good-for-nothing boy? I thought
it was a bat!" she said, and she broke out crying and ran into the house,
and would not mind his father, who was calling after her, "Lucy, Lucy, my
dear child!"
Pony was crying, too, for he did not intend to frighten his mother, and
when she took his fun as if he had done something wicked he did not know
what to think. He stole off to bed and he lay there crying in the dark and
expecting that she would come to him, as she always did, to have him say
that he was sorry when he had been wicked, or to tell him that she was
sorry, when she thought she had not been quite fair with him. But she did
not come, and after a good while his father came and said: "Are you awake,
Pony? I am sorry your mother misunderstood your fun. But you mustn't mind
it, dear boy. She's not well, and she's very nervous."
"I don't care!" Pony sobbed out. "She won't have a chance to touch me
again!" For he had made up his mind to run off with the circus which was
coming the next Tuesday.
He turned his face away, sobbing, and his father, after standing by his
bed a moment, went away without saying anything but, "Don't forget your
prayers, Pony. You'll feel differently in the morning, I hope."
Pony fell asleep thinking how he would come back to the Boy's Town with
the circus when he was grown up, and when he came out in the ring riding
three horses bareback he would see his father and mother and sisters in
one of the lower seats. They would not know him, but he would know them,
and he would send for them to come to the dressing-room, and would be very
good to them, all but his mother; he would be very cold and stiff with
her, though he would know that she was prouder of him than all the rest
put together, and she would go away almost crying.
He began being cold and stiff with her the very next morning, although she
was better than ever to him, and gave him waffles for breakfast with
unsalted butter, and tried to pet him up. That whole day she kept trying
to do things for him, but he would scarcely speak to her; and at night
she came to him and said, "What makes you act so strangely, Pony? Are you
offended with your mother?"
"Yes, I am!" said Pony, haughtily, and he twitched away from where she was
sitting on the side of his bed, leaning over him.
"On account of last night, Pony?" she asked, softly.
"I reckon you know well enough," said Pony, and he tried to be disgusted
with her for her being such a hypocrite, but he had to set his teeth hard,
hard, or he would have broken down crying.
"If it's for that, you mustn't, Pony, dear. You don't know how you
frightened me. When your snowball hit me, I felt sure it was a bat, and
I'm so afraid of bats, you know. I didn't mean to hurt my poor boy's
feelings so, and you mustn't mind it any more, Pony."
[Illustration: "HE BEGAN BEING COLD AND STIFF WITH HER THE VERY
NEXT MORNING"]
She stooped down and kissed him on the forehead, but he did not move or
say anything; only, after that he felt more forgiving towards his mother.
He made up his mind to be good to her along with the rest when he came
back with the circus. But still he meant to run off with the circus. He
did not see how he could do anything else, for he had told all the boys
that day that he was going to do it; and when they just laughed, and said:
"Oh yes. Think you can fool your grandmother! It'll be like running off
with the Indians," Pony wagged his head, and said they would see whether
it would or not, and offered to bet them what they dared.
The morning of the circus day all the fellows went out to the corporation
line to meet the circus procession. There were ladies and knights, the
first thing, riding on spotted horses; and then a band chariot, all made
up of swans and dragons. There were about twenty baggage wagons; but
before you got to them there was the greatest thing of all. It was a
chariot drawn by twelve Shetland ponies, and it was shaped like a big
shell, and around in the bottom of the shell there were little circus
actors, boys and girls, dressed in their circus clothes, and they all
looked exactly like fairies. They scarce seemed to see the fellows, as
they ran alongside of their chariot, but Hen Billard and Archy Hawkins,
who were always cutting up, got close enough to throw some peanuts to the
circus boys, and some of the little circus girls laughed, and the driver
looked around and cracked his whip at the fellows, and they all had to get
out of the way then.
Jim Leonard said that the circus boys and girls were all stolen, and
nobody was allowed to come close to them for fear they would try to send
word to their friends. Some of the fellows did not believe it, and wanted
to know how he knew it; and he said he read it in a paper; after that
nobody could deny it. But he said that if you went with the circus men of
your own free will they would treat you first-rate; only they would give
you burnt brandy to keep you little; nothing else but burnt brandy would
do it, but that would do it, sure.
Pony was scared at first when he heard that most of the circus fellows
were stolen, but he thought if he went of his own accord he would be all
right. Still, he did not feel so much like running off with the circus as
he did before the circus came. He asked Jim Leonard whether the circus
men made all the children drink burnt brandy; and Archy Hawkins and Hen
Billard heard him ask, and began to mock him. They took him up between
them, one by his arms and the other by the legs, and ran along with him,
and kept saying, "Does it want to be a great big circus actor? Then it
shall, so it shall," and, "We'll tell the circus men to be very careful of
you, Pony dear!" till Pony wriggled himself loose and began to stone them.
After that they had to let him alone, for when a fellow began to stone you
in the Boy's Town you had to let him alone, unless you were going to whip
him, and the fellows only wanted to have a little fun with Pony. But what
they did made him all the more resolved to run away with the circus, just
to show them.
He helped to carry water for the circus men's horses, along with the boys
who earned their admission that way. He had no need to do it, because his
father was going to take him in, anyway; but Jim Leonard said it was the
only way to get acquainted with the circus men. Still Pony was afraid to
speak to them, and he would not have said a word to any of them if it had
not been for one of them speaking to him first, when he saw him come
lugging a great pail of water, and bending far over on the right to
balance it.
"That's right," the circus man said to Pony. "If you ever fell into that
bucket you'd drown, sure."
He was a big fellow, with funny eyes, and he had a white bulldog at his
heels; and all the fellows said he was the one who guarded the outside of
the tent when the circus began, and kept the boys from hooking in under
the curtain.
Even then Pony would not have had the courage to say anything, but Jim
Leonard was just behind him with another bucket of water, and he spoke up
for him. "He wants to go with the circus."
They both set down their buckets, and Pony felt himself turning pale when
the circus man came towards them. "Wants to go with the circus, heigh?
Let's have a look at you." He took Pony by the shoulders and turned him
slowly round, and looked at his nice clothes, and took him by the chin.
"Orphan?" he asked.
Pony did not know what to say, but Jim Leonard nodded; perhaps he did not
know what to say, either; but Pony felt as if they had both told a lie.
"Parents living?" The circus man looked at Pony, and Pony had to say that
they were.
He gasped out, "Yes," so that you could scarcely hear him, and the circus
man said:
"Well, that's right. When we take an orphan, we want to have his parents
living, so that we can go and ask them what sort of a boy he is."
He looked at Pony in such a friendly, smiling way that Pony took courage
to ask him whether they would want him to drink burnt brandy.
"What for?"
"To keep me little."
"Oh, I see." The circus man took off his hat and rubbed his forehead with
a silk handkerchief, which he threw into the top of his hat before he put
it on again. "No, I don't know as we will. We're rather short of giants
just now. How would you like to drink a glass of elephant milk every
morning and grow into an eight-footer?"
Pony said he didn't know whether he would like to be quite so big; and
then the circus man said perhaps he would rather go for an India-rubber
man; that was what they called the contortionists in those days.
"Let's feel of you again." The circus man took hold of Pony and felt his
joints. "You're put together pretty tight; but I reckon we could make you
do if you'd let us take you apart with a screw-driver and limber up the
pieces with rattlesnake oil. Wouldn't like it, heigh? Well, let me see!"
The circus man thought a moment, and then he said: "How would
double-somersaults on four horses bareback do?"
Pony said that would do, and then the circus man said: "Well, then, we've
just hit it, because our double-somersault, four-horse bareback is just
going to leave us, and we want a new one right away. Now, there's more
than one way of joining a circus, but the best way is to wait on your
front steps with your things all packed up, and the procession comes along
at about one o'clock in the morning and picks you up. Which'd you rather
do?"
Pony pushed his toe into the turf, as he always did when he was ashamed,
but he made out to say he would rather wait out on the front steps.
"Well, then, that's all settled," said the circus man. "We'll be along,"
and he was going away with his dog, but Jim Leonard called after him:
"You hain't asked him whereabouts he lives."
The circus man kept on, and he said, without looking around, "Oh, that's
all right. We've got somebody that looks after that."
"It's the magician," Jim Leonard whispered to Pony, and they walked away.
IX
HOW PONY DID NOT QUITE GET OFF
WITH THE CIRCUS
A crowd of the fellows had been waiting to know what the boys had been
talking about to the circus man; but Jim Leonard said: "Don't you tell,
Pony Baker!" and he started to run, and that made Pony run, too, and they
both ran till they got away from the fellows.
"You have got to keep it a secret; for if a lot of fellows find it out the
constable'll get to know it, and he'll be watching out around the corner
of your house, and when the procession comes along and he sees you're
really going he'll take you up, and keep you in jail till your father
comes and bails you out. Now, you mind!"
Pony said, "Oh, I won't tell anybody," and when Jim Leonard said that if
a circus man was to feel him over, that way, and act so kind of pleasant
and friendly, he would be too proud to speak to anybody, Pony confessed
that he knew it was a great thing all the time.
"The way'll be," said Jim Leonard, "to keep in with him, and he'll keep
the others from picking on you; they'll be afraid to, on account of his
dog. You'll see, he'll be the one to come for you to-night; and if the
constable is there the dog won't let him touch you. I never thought of
that."
Perhaps on account of thinking of it now Jim Leonard felt free to tell the
other fellows how Pony was going to run off, for when a crowd of them came
along he told them. They said it was splendid, and they said that if they
could make their mothers let them, or if they could get out of the house
without their mothers knowing it, they were going to sit up with Pony and
watch out for the procession, and bid him good-bye.
At dinner-time he found out that his father was going to take him and all
his sisters to the circus, and his father and mother were so nice to him,
asking him about the procession and everything, that his heart ached at
the thought of running away from home and leaving them. But now he had to
do it; the circus man was coming for him, and he could not back out; he
did not know what would happen if he did. It seemed to him as if his
mother had done everything she could to make it harder for him. She had
stewed chicken for dinner, with plenty of gravy, and hot biscuits to sop
in, and peach preserves afterwards; and she kept helping him to more,
because she said boys that followed the circus around got dreadfully
hungry. The eating seemed to keep his heart down; it was trying to get
into his throat all the time; and he knew that she was being good to him,
but if he had not known it he would have believed his mother was just
doing it to mock him.
Pony had to go to the circus with his father and sisters, and to get on
his shoes and a clean collar. But a crowd of the fellows were there at the
tent door to watch out whether the circus man would say anything to him
when he went in; and Jim Leonard rubbed up against him, when the man
passed with his dog and did not even look at Pony, and said: "He's just
pretending. He don't want your father to know. He'll be round for you,
sure. I saw him kind of smile to one of the other circus men."
It was a splendid circus, and there were more things than Pony ever saw in
a circus before. But instead of hating to have it over, it seemed to him
that it would never come to an end. He kept thinking and thinking, and
wondering whether he would like to be a circus actor; and when the one
came out who rode four horses bareback and stood on his head on the last
horse, and drove with the reins in his teeth, Pony thought that he never
could learn to do it; and if he could not learn he did not know what the
circus men would say to him. It seemed to him that it was very strange he
had not told that circus man that he didn't know whether he could do it or
not; but he had not, and now it was too late.
A boy came around calling lemonade, and Pony's father bought some for each
of the children, but Pony could hardly taste his.
"What is the matter with you, Pony? Are you sick?" his father asked.
"No. I don't care for any; that's all. I'm well," said Pony; but he felt
very miserable.
After supper Jim Leonard came round and went up to Pony's room with him to
help him pack, and he was so gay about it and said he only wished he was
going, that Pony cheered up a little. Jim had brought a large square of
checked gingham that he said he did not believe his mother would ever
want, and that he would tell her he had taken if she asked for it. He said
it would be the very thing for Pony to carry his clothes in, for it was
light and strong and would hold a lot. He helped Pony to choose his things
out of his bureau drawers: a pair of stockings and a pair of white
pantaloons and a blue roundabout, and a collar, and two handkerchiefs.
That was all he said Pony would need, because he would have his circus
clothes right away, and there was no use taking things that he would
never wear.
Jim did these up in the square of gingham, and he tied it across
cater-cornered twice, in double knots, and showed Pony how he could put
his hand through and carry it just as easy. He hid it under the bed for
him, and he told Pony that if he was in Pony's place he should go to bed
right away or pretty soon, so that nobody would think anything, and maybe
he could get some sleep before he got up and went down to wait on the
front steps for the circus to come along. He promised to be there with the
other boys and keep them from fooling or making a noise, or doing anything
to wake his father up, or make the constable come. "You see, Pony," he
said, "if you can run off this year, and come back with the circus next
year, then a whole lot of fellows can run off. Don't you see that?"
Pony said he saw that, but he said he wished some of the other fellows
were going now, because he did not know any of the circus boys and he was
afraid he might feel kind of lonesome. But Jim Leonard said he would soon
get acquainted, and, anyway, a year would go before he knew it, and then
if the other fellows could get off he would have plenty of company.
As soon as Jim Leonard was gone Pony undressed and got into bed. He was
not sleepy, but he thought maybe it would be just as well to rest a little
while before the circus procession came along for him; and, anyway, he
could not bear to go down-stairs and be with the family when he was going
to leave them so soon, and not come back for a whole year.
After a good while, or about the time he usually came in from playing, he
heard his mother saying: "Where in the world is Pony? Has he come in yet?
Have you seen him, girls? Pony! Pony!" she called.
But somehow Pony could not get his voice up out of his throat; he wanted
to answer her, but he could not speak. He heard her say, "Go out to the
front steps, girls, and see if you can see him," and then he heard her
coming up the stairs; and she came into his room, and when she saw him
lying there in bed she said: "Why, I believe in my heart the child's
asleep! Pony! Are you awake?"
Pony made out to say no, and his mother said: "My! what a fright you gave
me! Why didn't you answer me? Are you sick, Pony? Your father said you
didn't seem well at the circus; and you didn't eat any supper, hardly."
Pony said he was first-rate, but he spoke very low, and his mother came up
and sat down on the side of his bed.
"What is the matter, child?" She bent over and felt his forehead. "No, you
haven't got a bit of fever," she said, and she kissed him, and began to
tumble his short black hair in the way she had, and she got one of his
hands between her two, and kept rubbing it. "But you've had a long,
tiresome day, and that's why you've gone to bed, I suppose. But if you
feel the least sick, Pony, I'll send for the doctor."
Pony said he was not sick at all; just tired; and that was true; he felt
as if he never wanted to get up again.
His mother put her arm under his neck, and pressed her face close down to
his, and said very low: "Pony, dear, you don't feel hard towards your
mother for what she did the other night?"
He knew she meant boxing his ears, when he was not to blame, and he said:
"Oh no," and then he threw his arms round her neck and cried; and she told
him not to cry, and that she would never do such a thing again; but she
was really so frightened she did not know what she was doing.
When he quieted down she said: "Now say your prayers, Pony, 'Our Father,'"
and she said "Our Father" all through with him, and after that, "Now I lay
me," just as when he was a very little fellow. After they had finished she
stooped over and kissed him again, and when he turned his face into his
pillow she kept smoothing his hair with her hand for about a minute. Then
she went away.
Pony could hear them stirring about for a good while down-stairs. His
father came in from up-town at last and asked:
"Has Pony come in?" and his mother said:
"Yes, he's up in bed. I wouldn't disturb him, Henry. He's asleep by this
time."
His father said: "I don't know what to make of the boy. If he keeps on
acting so strangely I shall have the doctor see him in the morning."
Pony felt dreadfully to think how far away from them he should be in the
morning, and he would have given anything if he could have gone down to
his father and mother and told them what he was going to do. But it did
not seem as if he could.
By-and-by he began to be sleepy, and then he dozed off, but he thought it
was hardly a minute before he heard the circus band, and knew that the
procession was coming for him. He jumped out of bed and put on his things
as fast as he could; but his roundabout had only one sleeve to it,
somehow, and he had to button the lower buttons of his trousers to keep it
on. He got his bundle and stole down to the front door without seeming to
touch his feet to anything, and when he got out on the front steps he saw
the circus magician coming along. By that time the music had stopped and
Pony could not see any procession. The magician had on a tall, peaked hat,
like a witch. He took up the whole street, he was so wide in the black
glazed gown that hung from his arms when he stretched them out, for he
seemed to be groping along that way, with his wand in one hand, like a
blind man.
He kept saying in a kind of deep, shaking voice: "It's all glory; it's all
glory," and the sound of those words froze Pony's blood. He tried to get
back into the house again, so that the magician should not find him, but
when he felt for the door-knob there was no door there anywhere; nothing
but a smooth wall. Then he sat down on the steps and tried to shrink up so
little that the magician would miss him; but he saw his wide goggles
getting nearer and nearer; and then his father and the doctor were
standing by him looking down at him, and the doctor said:
"He has been walking in his sleep; he must be bled," and he got out his
lancet, when Pony heard his mother calling: "Pony, Pony! What's the
matter? Have you got the nightmare?" and he woke up, and found it was just
morning.
The sun was shining in at his window, and it made him so glad to think
that by this time the circus was far away and he was not with it, that he
hardly knew what to do.
He was not very well for two or three days afterwards, and his mother let
him stay out of school to see whether he was really going to be sick or
not. When he went back most of the fellows had forgotten that he had been
going to run off with the circus. Some of them that happened to think of
it plagued him a little and asked how he liked being a circus actor.
Hen Billard was the worst; he said he reckoned the circus magician got
scared when he saw what a whaler Pony was, and told the circus men that
they would have to get a new tent to hold him; and that was the reason
why they didn't take him. Archy Hawkins said: "How long did you have to
wait on the front steps, Pony, dear?" But after that he was pretty good to
him, and said he reckoned they had better not any of them pretend that
Pony had not tried to run off if they had not been up to see.
Pony himself could never be exactly sure whether he had waited on the
front steps and seen the circus magician or not. Sometimes it seemed all
of it like a dream, and sometimes only part of it. Jim Leonard tried to
help him make it out, but they could not. He said it was a pity he had
overslept himself, for if he had come to bid Pony good-bye, the way he
said, then he could have told just how much of it was a dream and how much
was not.
X
THE ADVENTURES THAT PONY'S COUSIN,
FRANK BAKER, HAD WITH A POCKETFUL
OF MONEY
Very likely Pony Baker would not have tried to run off any more if it had
not been for Jim Leonard. He was so glad he had not got off with the
circus that he did not mind any of the things at home that used to vex
him; and it really seemed as if his father and mother were trying to act
better. They were a good deal taken up with each other, and sometimes he
thought they let him do things they would not have let him do if they had
noticed what he asked. His mother was fonder of him than ever, and if she
had not kissed him so much before the fellows he would not have cared, for
when they were alone he liked to have her pet him. But one thing was, he
could never get her to like Jim Leonard, or to believe that Jim was not
leading him into mischief whenever they were off together. She was always
wanting him to go with his cousin Frank, and he would have liked to ask
Frank about running off, and whether a fellow had better do it; but he was
ashamed, and especially after he heard his father tell how splendidly
Frank had behaved with two thousand dollars he was bringing from the city
to the Boy's Town; Pony was afraid that Frank would despise him, and he
did not hardly feel fit to go with Frank, anyway.
Frank Baker was one of those fellows that every mother would feel her boy
was safe with. She would be sure that no crowd he was in was going to do
any harm or come to any, for he would have an anxious eye out for
everybody, and he would stand between the crowd and the mischief that a
crowd of boys nearly always wants to do. His own mother felt easy about
the younger children when they were with Frank; and in a place where there
were more chances for a boy to get sucked under mill-wheels, and break
through ice, and fall from bridges, or have his fingers taken off by
machinery than any other place I ever heard of, she no more expected
anything to happen to them, if he had them in charge, than if she had them
in charge herself.
[Illustration: "FRANK BAKER WAS ONE OF THOSE FELLOWS THAT EVERY MOTHER
WOULD FEEL HER BOY WAS SAFE WITH"]
As there were a good many other children in the family, and Mrs. Baker did
her own work, like nearly every mother in the Boy's Town, Frank almost
always had some of them in charge. When he went hunting, or fishing, or
walnutting, or berrying, or in swimming, he usually had one or two younger
brothers with him; if he had only one, he thought he was having the
greatest kind of a time.
He did not mind carrying his brother on his back when he got tired,
although it was not exactly the way to steal on game, and the gun was a
heavy enough load, anyway; but if he had not got many walnuts, or any at
all--as sometimes happened--it was not a great hardship to haul his
brother home in the wagon. To be sure, when he wanted to swim out with
the other big boys it was pretty trying to have to keep an eye on his
brother, and see that he did not fall into the water from the bank where
he left him.
He was a good deal more anxious about other boys than he was about
himself, and once he came near getting drowned through his carelessness.
It was in winter, and the canal basin had been frozen over; then most of
the water was let out from under the ice, and afterwards partly let in
again. This lifted the ice-sheet, but not back to its old level, and the
ice that clung to the shores shelved steeply down to the new level. Frank
stepped on this shore ice to get a shinny-ball, and slipped down to the
edge of the ice-sheet, which he would be sure to go under into the water.
He holloed with all his might, and by good luck some people came and
reached him a stick, by which he pulled himself out.
The scare of it haunted him for long after, but not so much for himself.
Whenever he was away from home in the winter he would see one of his
younger brothers slipping down the shore ice and going under the
ice-sheet, and he would break into a cold sweat at the idea. This shows
just the worrying kind of boy Frank was; and it shows how used he was to
having care put upon him, and how he would even borrow trouble when he had
none.
It generally happens with any one who makes himself useful that other
people make him useful, too, and all the neighbors put as much trust in
Frank as his mother, and got him to do a good many things that they would
not have got other boys to do. They could not look into his face, a little
more careworn than it ought to be at his age, without putting perfect
faith in him, and trying to get something out of him. That was how he came
to do so many errands for mothers who had plenty of boys of their own; and
he seemed to be called on in any sort of trouble or danger, when the
fathers were up-town, and was always chasing pigs or cows out of other
people's gardens, and breaking up their hens from setting, or going up
trees with hives to catch their bees when they swarmed.
I suppose this was how he came to be trusted with that pocketful of money,
and why he had a young brother along to double his care at the time.
The money was given him in the city, as the Boy's Town boys always called
the large place about twenty miles away, where Frank went once with his
mother when he was eleven years old. She was going to take passage there
on a steamboat and go up the Ohio River to visit his grandmother with his
sisters, while Frank was to go back the same day to the Boy's Town with
one of his young brothers.
They all drove down to the city together in the carriage which one of his
uncles had got from the livery stable, with a driver who was to take Frank
and his brother home. This uncle had been visiting Frank's father and
mother, and it was his boat that she was going on. It lay among a hundred
other boats, which had their prows tight together along the landing for
half a mile up and down the sloping shore. It was one of the largest boats
of all, and it ran every week from Cincinnati to Pittsburgh, and did not
take any longer for the round trip than an ocean steamer takes now for the
voyage from New York to Liverpool.
The children all had dinner on board, such a dinner as there never was in
any house: roast beef and roast chicken; beefsteak and ham in
chafing-dishes with lamps burning under them to keep them hot; pound-cake
with frosting on, and pies and pickles, corn-bread and hot biscuit; jelly
that kept shaking in moulds; ice-cream and Spanish pudding; coffee and
tea, and I do not know what all.
When the children had eaten all they could hold, and made their uncle
laugh till he almost cried, to see them trying to eat everything, their
mother went ashore with them, and walked up the landing towards the hotel
where the carriage was left, so as to be with Frank and his little brother
as long as she could before they started home. She was about one of the
best mothers in the Boy's Town, and Frank hated to have her go away even
on a visit.
She kept giving him charges about all the things at home, and how he must
take good care of his little brothers, and see that the garden gate was
fastened so that the cows could not get in, and feed the chickens
regularly, and put the cat out every night, and not let the dog sleep
under his bed; and they were so busy talking and feeling sorry that they
got to the hotel before they knew it.
There, whom should they see but one of the Boy's Town merchants, who was
in the city on business, and who seemed as glad to meet them as if they
were his own relations. They were glad, too, for it made them feel as if
they had got back to the Boy's Town when he came up and spoke to Mrs.
Baker. They had started from home after a very early breakfast, and she
said it seemed as if they had been gone a year already. The merchant told
her that he had been looking everywhere for somebody he knew who was going
to the Boy's Town; and then he told Mrs. Baker that he had two thousand
dollars which he wanted to send home to his partner, and he asked her if
she could take it for him when she went back.
"Well, indeed, indeed, I'm thankful I'm not going, Mr. Bushell!" Mrs.
Baker said. "And I wouldn't have supposed I could be, I'm so homesick. I'm
going up the river on a visit to mother; but if I was going straight back,
I wouldn't take your two thousand dollars for the half of it. I would be
afraid of losing it, or getting robbed and murdered. I don't know what
wouldn't happen. I would be happy to oblige you, but indeed, indeed I
couldn't!"
The merchant said he was sorry, but if she was not going home he supposed
he would have to find some one who was. It was before the days of sending
money by express, or telegraphing it, and the merchant told her he was
afraid to trust the money in the mail. He asked her who was going to take
her carriage home, and she told him the name of the driver from the livery
stable in the Boy's Town, who had come to the city with them.
Mr. Bushell seemed dreadfully disappointed, but when she went on to say
how anxious she was that the driver should get Frank and his brother home
before dark, he brightened up all of a sudden, and he asked, "Is Frank
going back?" and he looked down into Frank's face and smiled, as most
people did when they looked into Frank's face, and he asked, "What's the
reason Frank couldn't take it?"
Mrs. Baker put her arm across Frank's breast and pulled him away, and
said, "Indeed, indeed, the child just sha'n't, and that's all about it!"
But Mr. Bushell took the boy by the arm and laughed. "Let's feel how deep
your pants' pocket is," he said; and he put his hand into the pocket of
Frank's nankeen trousers and felt; and then, before Mrs. Baker could stop
him, he drew a roll of bank-notes out of his own pocket and pushed it into
Frank's. "There, it's just a fit! Do you think you'd lose it?"
"No, he wouldn't lose it," said his mother, "and that's just it! He'd
worry about it every minute, and I would worry about him!"
She tried to make the merchant take the money back, but he kept joking;
and then he turned serious, and told her that the money had to be put in
the bank to pay a note, and he did not know any way to get it to his
partner if she would not let Frank take it; that he was at his wits' end.
He said he would as lief trust it with Frank as with any man he knew; that
nobody would think the boy had any money with him; and he fairly begged
her to let Frank take it for him.
He talked to her so much that she began to give way a little. She felt
proud of his being willing to trust Frank, and at last she consented. Mr.
Bushell explained that he wished his partner to have the money that
evening, and she had to agree to let Frank carry it to him as soon as he
got home.
The Boy's Town was built on two sides of a river. Mr. Bushell's store was
across the river from where the Bakers lived, and she said she did not
want the child to have to go through the bridge after dark. Perhaps it was
her anxiety about this that began the whole trouble; for when the driver
came with the carriage, she could not help asking him if he was sure to
get home before sundown. That made him drive faster than he might have
done, perhaps; at any rate, he set off at a quick trot after Mr. Bushell
had helped put the two boys in. Mrs. Baker gathered her little girls
together and went back to the boat with her heart in her mouth, as she
afterwards said.
The driver got out of the city without trouble, but when he came to the
smooth turnpike road, it seemed to Frank that the horses kept going faster
and faster, till they were fairly flying over the ground. The driver
pulled and pulled at the reins, and people began to hollo, "Look out where
you're going!" when they met them or passed them, and all at once Frank
began to think the horses were running away. He had not much chance to
think about it, though, he was so busy keeping his little brother from
bouncing off the seat and out of the carriage, and in feeling if Mr.
Bushell's money was safe; and he was not certain that they were running
away till he saw people stopping and staring, and then starting after the
carriage.
The horses tore along for two or three miles; they thundered through the
covered bridge on Mill's Creek, and passed the Four-Mile House. By the
time they reached the little village beyond it they had the turnpike to
themselves; every team coming and going drove into the gutter.
At the village a large, fat butcher, who was sitting tilted back in a
chair at the door of his shop, saw the carriage coming in a whirlwind of
dust, and he knew what the matter was. There was a horse standing at the
hitching rail, and the butcher just had time to untie him and jump into
the saddle when the runaways flew by. He took after them as fast as his
horse could go, and overhauled them at the end of the next bridge and
brought them to a stand.
It had really been nothing but a race against time. No one was hurt; the
horses were pretty badly blown, that was all; but the carriage was so much
shaken up that it had to be left at a wagon-shop, where it could not be
mended till morning. The two boys were taken back to Four-Mile House,
where they would have to pass the night.
Frank worried about his father, who would be expecting them home that
evening; but he was glad his mother did not know what had happened. He was
thankful enough when he felt his brother all over and found him safe and
sound, and then put his hand on his pocket and found that Mr. Bushell's
money was still there. He did not eat very much supper, and he went to bed
early, after he had put his brother in bed and seen him fall asleep almost
before he got through his prayers.
Frank was very tired, and pretty sore from the jouncing in the carriage;
but he was too worried to be sleepy. He began to think, What if some one
should get Mr. Bushell's money away from him in the night, while he was
asleep? And then he was glad that he did not feel like sleeping. He got up
and put on his clothes and sat down by the window, listening to his
brother's breathing and looking out into the dark at the heat-lightning
in the west. The day had been very hot and the night was close, without a
breath of wind. By-and-by all the noises about the house died away, and he
knew everybody had gone to bed. The lantern under the tavern porch threw a
dim light out into the road; some dogs barked away off. There was no other
sound, and the stillness was awful. He kept his hand on the pocket that
had the money in it.
After a while Frank began to feel very drowsy, and he thought he would lie
down again, but he promised himself he would not sleep, and he did not
undress; for if he took his pantaloons off, he did not know how he could
make sure every minute that the money was safe, unless he put it under his
pillow. He was afraid if he did that he might forget it in the morning,
and leave it when he got up.
He stretched himself on the bed beside his brother, and it seemed to him
that it was hardly a second before he heard a loud crash that shook the
whole house; and the room looked full of fire. Another crash came, and
then another, with a loud, stony kind of rolling noise that seemed to go
round the world. Then he knew that he had been asleep, and that this
dreadful noise was the swift coming of a thunder-storm.
It was the worst storm that was ever known in Mill Creek Valley, so the
people said afterwards, but as yet it was only beginning. The thunder was
deafening, and it never stopped a moment. The lightning hardly stopped,
either; it filled the room with a quivering blaze; at times, when it died
down, the night turned black as ink, and then a flash came that lit up the
fields outside, and showed every stick and stone as bright as the
brightest day.
Frank was dazed at first by the glare and the noise; then he jumped out of
bed, and tried for two things: whether the money was still safe in his
pocket, and whether his brother was alive. He never could tell which he
found out first; as soon as he knew, he felt a little bit better, but
still his cheerfulness was not anything to brag of.
If his brother was alive, it seemed to be more than any one else in the
house was besides himself. He could not hear a soul stirring, although in
that uproar there might have been a full-dress parade of the Butler Guards
in the tavern, firing off their guns, and he could not have heard them. He
looked out in the entry, but it was all dark there except when he let the
flashes of his room into it. He thought he would light his candle, for
company, and so that the lightning would not be so awfully bright. He
found his candlestick easily enough--he could have found a pin in that
glare--but there were no matches.
So he decided to get along without the candle. Every now and then he put
his hand in his pocket, or on the bulge outside, to make sure of the
money; and whenever a very bright flash came, he would listen for his
brother's breathing, to tell whether he had been struck by lightning or
not. But it kept thundering so that sometimes he could not hear. Then
Frank would shake him till the boy gave a sort of snort, and that proved
that he was still alive; or he would put his ear to his brother's breast,
and listen whether his heart was beating.
It always was, and by-and-by the rain began to fall. It fell in perfect
sheets, and the noise it made could be heard through the thunder. But
Frank had always heard that after it began to rain, a thunder-storm was
not so dangerous, and the air got fresher. Still, it blazed and bellowed
away, he could never tell how long, and it seemed to him that he must have
felt a thousand times for Mr. Bushell's money, and tried a thousand times
to find whether his brother had been struck by lightning or not. Once or
twice he thought he would call for help; but he did not think he could
make anybody hear, and he was too much ashamed to do it, anyway.
Between the times of feeling for the money and seeing whether his brother
was alive, he thought about his mother: how frightened she would be if she
knew what had happened to him and his brother, after they left her. And he
thought of his father: how troubled he must be at their not getting home.
It seemed to him that he must be to blame, somehow, but he could not
understand how, exactly; and he could not think of any way to help it.
He wondered if the storm was as bad on the river and in the Boy's Town,
and whether the lightning would strike the boat or the house; the house
had a lightning-rod, but the boat could not have one, of course. He felt
pretty safe about his father and the older-younger brother who had been
left at home with him; but he was not sure about his mother and sisters,
and he tried to imagine what people did on a steamboat in a thunder-storm.
After a long time had passed, and he thought it must be getting near
morning, he lay down again beside his brother, and fell into such a heavy
sleep that he did not wake till it was broad day, and the sun was making
as much blaze in the curtainless tavern-room as the lightning had made.
The storm was over, and everything was as peaceful as if there had never
been any such thing as a storm in the world. The first thing he did was to
make a grab for his pocket. The money was still there, and his brother
sleeping as soundly as ever.
After breakfast, the livery-stable man came with the carriage, which he
had got mended, and Frank started home with his brother once more. But
they had sixteen miles to go before they would reach the Boy's Town, and
the carriage had been so badly shattered, or else the driver was so much
afraid of the horses, that he would not let them go at more than a walk.
Frank was anxious to get home on his father's account; still he would
rather get home safe, and he did not try to hurry the driver, for fear
they might not get home at all.
It was four o'clock in the afternoon when they stopped at his father's
house. His older-younger brother, and the hired girl, whom his mother had
got to keep house while she was gone on her visit, came out and took his
little brother in; and the girl told Frank his father had just been there
to see whether he had got back. Then he knew that his father must have
been as anxious as he had been afraid he was. He did not wait to go
inside; he only kicked off the shoes he wore to the city and started off
for his father's office as fast as his bare feet could carry him.
He found his father at the door. He did not say very much, but Frank could
see by his face that he had been worrying; and afterwards he said that he
was just going round to the livery stable the next minute to get another
team, and go down towards the city to see what had become of them all.
Frank told him what had happened, and his father put his arms round him,
but still did not say much. He did not say anything at all about Mr.
Bushell's money or seem to think about it till Frank asked:
"I'd better take it right straight over to his store, hadn't I, father?"
His father said he reckoned he had, and Frank started away on the run
again. He wanted to get rid of that money so badly, for it was all he had
to worry about, after he had got rid of his brother, that he was out of
breath, almost, by the time he reached Mr. Bushell's store. But even then
he could not get rid of the money. Mr. Bushell had told him to give it to
his partner, but his partner had gone out into the country, and was not to
be back till after supper.
Frank did not know what to do. He did not dare to give it to any one else
in the store, and it seemed to him that the danger of having it got worse
every minute. He hung about a good while, and kept going in and out of the
store, but at last he thought the best thing would be to go home and ask
his father; and that was what he did.
By this time his father had gone home to supper, and he found him there
with his two younger brothers, feeling rather lonesome, with Frank's
mother and his sisters all away. But they cheered up together, and his
father said he had done right not to leave the money, and he would just
step over, after supper, and give it himself to Mr. Bushell's partner. He
took the roll of bills from Frank and put it into his own pocket, and went
on eating his supper, but when they were done he gave the bills back to
the boy.
"After all, Frank, I believe I'll let you take that money to Mr.
Bushell's partner. He trusted it to you, and you ought to have the glory;
you've had the care. Do you think you'll be afraid to come home through
the bridge after sunset?"
