won’t pick up a single block, you 
ugly old thing!” 
‘‘You deserve a good whipping, that’s 
what you do!” and for a moment Bessie 
would have been delighted to administer 
it. But Mrs. Collins had forbidden the 
elder children to strike the younger ones, 
no matter what the provocation might he. 
 
So Bessie swept the porch and then 
wiped it over with the mop. It was time 
to make np the fire again. She was cross 
to Freddy, ont of temper, and as a nat- 
ural result everything went wrong. 
Supper was a little late, but so was her 
father, and Dick never reached home 
until seven. 
She went to bed shortly after her work 
was done, for she was tired and out of 
spirits. Housekeeping had not been the 
brilliant success she imagined it. But 
Freddy was so much trouble. Never 
mind, to-morrow afternoon he would he 
gone, and she and the girls could have a 
good time. 
Her father had the kettle boiling in 
the morning before he called her. The 
smart and ache was out of her fin- 
gers, and she felt rested. Everything 
 
went smoothly at breakfast, only Dick 
said— 
"You need not have taken so much 
pains setting my drawer aside, Bessie. 
I had to laugh this morning when I could 
not find a single thing where I had put it. 
But I suppose housekeeping was a great 
treat to you, ’ ’ and he laughed. 
Bessie flushed. He would never know 
the rest, but if she could only have the 
book to read. 
'If that’s a specimen, you’ll be splen- 
did, Bessie, neat enough for an old 
maid.” 
Bessie turned away to listen to her 
father. Could she not boil some beets? 
and he would send in a steak for dinner, 
and— was there anything else? 
Jamie stayed at home all the morning 
and helped to amuse Freddy. Bessie at- 
 
tended to her sleeping rooms, and then 
went to the kitchen. After washing the 
dishes she concluded to try making some 
cookies. They would he so good to eat 
this afternoon when the girls came. 
She had often helped her mother on 
baking days, but it was somewhat differ- 
ent to plan everything for herself. Bes- 
sie was not quite as wise as she fancied, 
though she often imagined that she could 
improve upon her mother’s ways. She 
poured in her milk without any measure- 
ment, and then had to use more flour, 
making twice the quantity of dough that 
she meant to. She could not remember 
whether she had put in salt or not, and, 
without thinking to taste, ran for some 
more. They were rolled out, cut, and 
placed in the pans. 
‘‘ I ’ll make a cake of the rest, ’’she said 
 
to herself. ‘‘I can’t bother cutting out 
so much. ’ ’ 
She put them in the oven and began to 
tidy up her kitchen. What a sight of 
work there was to do, after all! Beans 
to shell and Dick had asked for mashed 
potatoes. Oh, her cookies must be 
done ! 
They were hard and dried, but not the 
beautiful brown that she was accustomed 
to see. What could be the matter I 
There was a good fire— oh, she had never 
turned the damper ! How could she have 
forgotten it? Well, she would try the 
others. As for these— they might as well 
be cannon balls. She would not say any- 
thing about them, but soak them and give 
them to the chickens. A little flour was 
of no account. She turned the damper, 
and the rest baked very nicely. Then 
 
she put in her cake, and was so busy with 
potatoes, beans, and the dinner table that 
she never thought to look until her dishes 
were washed. The cake was a cinder, 
of course, and the pan would have to be 
scoured before it met her mother’s eyes. 
But as the girls were coming, she would 
not do it now. 
Mr. Collins had taken the two boys with 
him, so Bessie thought she would dress 
up for her company. There was a pretty 
lawn dress that her mother was rather 
choice of, but, then, if it did get crumpled, 
she could iron it out again. To be sure, 
her calico was clean, but this was the 
prettiest, and ruffled. She would be very 
careful. 
Carrie came first. She was a bright, 
droll girl, who could talk broken Irish 
and Dutch, and mimicked every one to 
 
tlie life. She came up to Bessie room 
and inspected everything. When SojDhie 
and Mary came, Bessie ran down, leaving 
her there. 
"Let us go out in the barn and have 
a good romp,’’ said Mary. 'It is such 
fun climbing over the hay. And we can 
do nothing much in-doors. ’ ’ 
' ‘ Agreed. I like it much the best, ’’ 
declared Bessie. "Come, Carrie!” she 
called. 
The visitor ran’ down i)resently, and 
said in a breathless way that she had been 
looking out of every window. There 
was a great fragrance of cologne about 
her, and Bessie mistrusted at once that 
she had been helping herself. 
They did have a gay time, sure enough. 
Carrie said and did everything funny, 
but somehow Bessie did not feel quite at 
ease. The amusement did not seem to 
go down to the bottom of her heart and 
satisfy. And as she was scrambling 
about, her dress caught on something. 
Oh, the fearful rent ! Just above the ruf- 
fle, where it never could be mended, for 
it was drawn all out of shape. She might 
have known— why did she wear it out 
here to play in the hay 
is dreadful, isnT it? Will your 
mother scold? Can T you mend it? Oh, 
what a dreadful tear ! ’ 
Their fun was spoiled then. They 
came down very soberly and returned to 
the house, looked over some books, and 
then declared they must go home. Bes- 
sie forgot about the cookies that she 
was going to treat them with. She had 
a good cry as they went out of the gate, 
then she took her dress off and looked at 
 
it. No, it never could be mended. The 
whole breadth, too. If it only had torn 
anyhere else. 
Presently a bright thought came into 
Bessie 's head. Her mother had taught 
her to sew very nicely ; indeed, not being 
able to keep a servant, Bessie was made 
her chief assistant. She hnnted up her 
mother’s piece bag, and, oh, joy! there 
was a large piece, enough for a new 
breadth. If she could get it in before her 
mother ’s return. 
She began to rip it out, but, being 
sewed with a machine, it was slow work. 
Her father came home, there was sup- 
per to get, the boys to wash and put to 
bed, and then she took a lamp to her 
room, but ere long her father called to 
Imow if she had gone to bed, and why her 
light was burning. 
 
She wiped away a few tears and went 
to bed. 
"Who broke my cologne bottle T’ 
asked Dick, the next morning. Jamie, 
was it your work ? ’ ' 
" No, it wasn ’t. I haven ’t been in your 
room.’’ 
 
“ IT was not you, Bessie? It looks as 
 if some one had hit it to loosen the 
stopper and broken the neck off. 
The cologne is nearly all spilled, hut the 
bottle is standing upright, so it could not 
have been the cat. ’ ’ 
"What a strange thing ! J amie, don T 
tell any story about it,’' said his father, 
sternly. 
didn’t, father. I haven’t touched 
it. Please do believe me. ’ ’ 
can guess how it happened,” Bessie 
said, in great confusion. Carrie Lan- 
ham called yesterday, and I took her to 
my room while I was dressing. Then the 
 
Lewis girls ran over, and I came down, 
expecting she would follow. When she 
did come down, she was very sweet with 
cologne, but I thought she had been using 
mine. ’ ’ 
' ‘ I wish you would keep your girls out 
.of my room, ’ ’ said Dick, crossly. 
did not know she went there. It 
was very ill-bred. But, Dick, I will 
give you my bottle,’' Bessie said, in 
so deprecating a tone that Dick was con- 
quered. 
' ‘ Isn ’t that the girl mother doesn 't like, 
Bessie ? Don ’t ever ask her here. ’ ' 
‘‘No, I will not,’' Bessie answered. 
“She cannot be real good or she would 
not have done such a thing. ’ ’ 
Every spare moment of the morning 
poor Bessie worked upon her dress, but 
what with the boys and the dinner there 
 
were so many interruptions. As soon as 
she could get the dishes out of the way 
she took her dress over to Mrs. Lewis to 
ask her to sew up the breadths and stitch 
the ruffles on. 
am so glad you could do it/’ said 
Bessie. 
‘‘You are a very ingenious little girl,” 
remarked Mrs. Lewis. “How fortunate 
that you had some lawn like it. But you 
ought to have known better than to play 
in such a delicate dress. ’ ’ 
Bessie expressed her thanks with 
a great sense of relief. When she 
reached home, she ironed it out and 
hung it in the wardrobe, then finished 
putting her house in order, and had just 
time to dress herself and go to meet her 
mother. 
How glad Bessie was to see her. 
Housekeeping had not been so very de- 
lightful, after all. She was worried and 
anxious, and seemed to have a load at 
her heart, and the tears came into her 
eyes as her mother kissed her. 
Grandma is better, dear, and I have 
had a nice visit. She wants you to come 
and stay a week, and I promised you 
should. Are they all well, and did you 
keep house nicely? I have thought of 
you half the time. ’ ’ 
Pretty well,’' Bessie answered, so- 
berly. 
And there is father, too, come to meet 
us. Run on, Lotty, dear, and catch 
him. ’ ' 
Mrs. Collins was escorted to the house 
in a triumphant procession, and Mr. Col- 
lins declared that Bessie had been the 
nicest little housekeeper in the world, and 
that mother might go again; but Bessie 
felt as if she never wanted to be left alone 
with household cares. 
When Dick came home to supper, he 
put a square white parcel on her plate. 
He was a little sorry for his crossness 
that morning. 
‘ ‘ Oh, ’ ' she cried, " a book ! And Little 
Women! Dear Dick— 
‘‘She deserved it, mother. She has 
kept house like an old woman, and noth- 
ing has been behindhand. ’ ’ 
Bessie ran out of the room to cry a 
little. She felt so sorry for the things 
they could not know— the dreadful things 
she never should have the courage to 
confess. But she never would touch 
Dick’s books again without permission, 
and as for Carrie Lanham— 
“What is in this jar?” asked her 
 
mother, as they were putting away the 
tea things. "Oh, cookies! AVhy— 
made them yesterday, mamma, but 
they were not— very good— 
‘‘Pretty salt,’' said her mother, with 
a grimace, “but they will do for the chil- 
dren. ’ ' 
That evening Bessie took out the stock- 
ings. 
“So you did not even find time to 
darn the stockings, Bessie,'’ her mother 
began, merrily. “Yet sometimes you 
think there cannot be much to do, and 
during these three days there was no 
washing, ironing, or baking, and no 
baby to look after ; but I dare say 
you found enough to keep you pretty 
busy. ’ ' 
“I am afraid I did not improve it in 
the beginning, ’ ’ Bessie returned, gravely. 
 
‘'But I shall never think again that it is 
so very easy to do. ’ ’ 
"Yon sncceeded very well,” said 
her mother. ‘‘And as a reward yon 
shall have a nice, pleasant week at 
Grandma’s. Annt Lucy will be glad to 
have you.” 
There was a great lump in Bessie’s 
throat, but she had not the courage to 
speak, and afternoon came so soon. Her 
mother laid out her pretty lawn dress, 
and her father took her to the station and 
gave her into the conductor’s charge. 
But Bessie’s heart was not as light as it 
should have been for a little girl who was 
going to make a pleasant visit. 
Bessie had a delightful visit with her 
Aunt Lucy. Grandmother was just be- 
ginning to sit up a little, and she was a 
very pleasant old lady to wait upon. She 
read aloud from an entertaining book, 
sewed a little, and had one tea-party with 
some neighboring girls. 
‘'How much you have improved!’' her 
Aunt Lucy would say. "How thought- 
ful you are! What a help your mother 
must find you ! " 
Bessie would flush at this praise and 
feel that she did not deserve it. If she 
only could make Aunt Lucy stop ! 
I said in the beginning that Bessie was 
not a persistently deceitful girl. She 
sometimes did naughty things and let 
them '‘blow over,’’ as people say; but 
they always troubled her, and made her 
much more conscientious while they were 
in her mind. And the pretty lawn dress 
that she put on every afternoon kept it 
all fresh. She was very glad she had 
succeeded in repairing it, and there was 
 
no real harm done anywhere, only she 
had not been trusty nor truthful, nor kind 
to Freddy. It wasn 't at all likely any of 
it would come to light, but she wished it 
never had happened. 
The next Saturday Dick came over, 
and on Monday morning he took her 
home. School was to begin, so she could 
only kiss her mother and the children and 
run away ; but her mother had looked up 
her books and her lunch-box. 
That afternoon she said to Bessie — 
'‘Did you see anything of a handsome 
piece of thread lace, Bessie, that I have 
been wearing in my silk dress? I did it 
up the very day I went to Grandmother 's, 
and laid it in the top of my drawer. I 
was in a hurry, and so did not stop to put 
it in my lace-box. ’ ’ 
said Bessie, slowly. 
 
You did not go to the drawer for anything ! ’
‘‘I am sure I did not!" 
'‘Well, it is strange. I would not care 
so much, hut it was expensive, and that 
for my sleeves matched. Still, I may 
have mislaid it.'’ 
Bessie felt warm and confused. She 
remembered now that Carrie Lanham 
had been accused at school of being 
light-fingered." She had lingered in 
the rooms after Bessie came down, and 
said she had been looking out of every 
window. Of course she had broken 
Dick’s beautiful cologne bottle, but she 
surely could not have had the face to 
steal— that was just it. Oh, if she only 
had not asked her to come ! Her mother 
had often said, would so much rather 
have you ask girls in when I am home 
 
than when I am out, Bessie’’; but the 
little girl had been so intent upon suiting 
herself those few days. 
She asked Carrie Lanliam at recess 
next morning, in* a rather confused and 
delicate maner to be sure, but Carrie was 
very indignant, and denied ‘'up and 
down, ’ ’ as the children say. 
"But you did break Dick’s cologne bot- 
tle,” Bessie exclaimed, decisively. '‘No 
one else was in the room ; and you came 
down drenched with cologne. ’ ’ 
‘'It’s no such thing! You are the 
meanest girl I ever heard of, Bessie Col- 
lins! I would not be hired to step in 
your house again, and I won’t speak to- 
you this whole term ; you see if I do. ’ ’ 
Bessie went to her seat and dropped a 
few quiet tears over her book. Her 
mother knew best, of course. She 
 
thought her so strict, so almost queer at 
times, and yet it was wisest, no doubt. 
Her judgment had not brought about 
very good results, she had to confess. If 
she only could have found her mother’s 
beautiful lace ; but it never came to light. 
" Have you read the book I gave you ! ’ ’ 
Dick asked one evening when they were 
in the kitchen making candy. "But of 
course you have, and it’s just splendid, 
isn’t it?” 
Bessie’s eyes dropped and her brow 
flushed, for her cheeks were red as roses 
before. 
I— no, I haven’t,” she answered, 
with much confusion. 
"Why?” and Dick’s bright face was 
full of disappointment. ‘‘Didn’t you 
like to have it, or had you read it 
before?” 
Neither — and I was glad — only I 
did not deserve it, and I am wait- 
ing— ’ ' 
There Bessie broke down into a good 
cry. 
‘ ‘ Yon foolish little girl ! It is all about 
that broken bottle. I was cross at first 
with yon, but I felt sorry, and yon were 
so good—’’ 
‘'No, I wasn’t,” Bessie interrupted, 
wish you would let me tell you all, 
Dick; and maybe you had better take 
the book until some time when I am bet- 
ter. ’ ’ 
Dick looked up in astonishment. Was 
Bessie the author of the mischief, and 
had she told a falsehood? 
‘'Well?” Dick answered. 
So Bessie related her first morning’s 
temptation, and how she had taken out 
 
the bureau drawers to get the hidden 
story. 
‘ ‘ Mother told me to lock up any books 
I might have lying around. I would not 
have thought it of you, Bess, but, oh! 
don’t cry, it wasn’t so very bad, and you 
did not tell any story. ’ ’ 
'‘Yes, I told one to Freddy to account 
for having the drawer out, and acted one 
when you found your clothes so differ- 
ent, for somehow, when you begin—” 
Ah, Bessie, it is well to learn about the 
' Wangled web” early in life, if so be that 
it brings wisdom. 
' ‘ Oh, Bess, how lucky the bottle did not 
break— the one in the drawer, I mean. 
It had nitric acid in it. I was taking out 
a wart with it, and it would have eaten 
everything to pieces wherever it dropped. 
It wasn’t a nice thing to do, to be sure, 
 
but I know you are sorry, and I don’t be- 
lieve you ever would do it again. You 
see, you are so fond of reading, and 
mother doesn’t think it right to waste so 
much time; that is why I lock up my 
books.” 
‘'But you need never again, Dick. And 
I was punishing myself, because I did 
want to read the book so much. ’ ’ 
‘'You are a brave little girl after all. 
Now we will make up, splendid, good 
friends, and shake hands. You are 
never to touch anything in my room that 
you think mother or I would not like you 
to have, and I will not need to put things 
out of sight. There, I’ll trust you until 
you tell me that you have broken your 
word, which I hope will never be. And 
now I want you to begin Little Women 
just as soon as you have leisure.” 
With that they kissed each other and 
went on with the candy making, Bessie 
feeling qnite light of heart. The candy 
was a success, too, and Bessie ran out of 
doors a few minutes to cool her burning 
eyes before she went into the next room, 
where her mother sat sewing while her 
father read his paper. They ate all the 
candy they wanted, and left some for the 
children who were in bed. 
CHAPTER IV 
BESSIE HIGHEK HOUSEKEEPING
The next day Cousin Jane sent word 
that she was coming over for a 
visit, and when Bessie came home 
from school there she found her in her 
favorite window, her pincushion, her box 
of spools and odds and ends, and her 
scissors lying on the window sill; her 
patchwork hag hung on one corner of the 
chair and her knitting bag on the other 
Right in front of her lay a pile of calico, 
and on the lap-board she was sorting and 
doing up. 
< i There, Bessie, ’ ’ she began, as soon as 
she had answered the child's greeting, 
‘HVe been cutting up the bundles of 
pieces, and here are half enough blocks 
for a new quilt. I am so sorry I did not 
come over in vacation, for you might 
have sewed it instead of cantering all 
over as girls do now-a-days. Wh.jy when 
I was twelve years old I had four bed 
quilts of my own pieced, and had knit my 
own stockings for I can’t tell how long. 
I never went to school a day after that. ’ ’ 
Mrs. Collins glanced up to catch Bes- 
sie’s eye, and quietly entreat her not to 
answer her hack sharply, hut Bessie only 
said with a little laugh : 
Girls are not so smart now-a-days. 
Cousin Jane.” 
That’s true enough, true enough. But 
you might improve your time. There’s 
so many to keep at you that I ’m sure you 
have no excuse. And your mother was 
brought up in the old-fashioned way. 
Lotty, let those things alone! Now I 
hope yon are not going to waste this 
whole afternoon, Bessie. 
" Oh, no, indeed ! I have stacks of les- 
sons to learn. I go np in mother 's room, 
where it is qniet, for that,’’ and putting 
away her lunch box, she left the room, 
while Cousin Jane was descanting on the 
folly of studying so many things and 
wasting so much time. 
That evening Bessie brought out her 
stockings. Dick was making ready to 
crack some butternuts, and a plate of 
rosy apples stood on the table. 
There now, Elizabeth,” said Cousin 
Jane, would have darned those stock- 
ings this afternoon if you had given them 
to me. ’ ’ 
Bessie takes a certain share in the 
household work,” replied her mother, 
 
‘‘and I like to have her do it, unless 
something especial prevents.’’ 
Cousin Jane looked them over to see if 
Bessie did them well, hut she could find 
no fault. Afterward Bessie brought out 
a tidy she was crocheting, but as this did 
not, in the elder lady’s estimation, come 
under the head of strictly useful and nec- 
essary things, there was a small lecture, 
which Bessie took very sweetly. 
“Bessie,” her mother said, the follow- 
ing morning, “Mrs. Strong and her sis- 
ter are coming to tea to-night, and I sent 
word for them to bring Addie. Come 
home as soon as you can. ’ ’ 
“How good of you, mother!” and Bes- 
sie clasped her arms fondly about her 
mother’s neck. 
“Elizabeth, I am afraid you are spoil- 
ing that child. They see enough of girls 
 
at school and everywhere, and this hav- 
ing company makes them too much like 
big folks. It isn’t a good plan, and 
you ’LL find it so in the end.” 
Bessie flushed and wanted very much to 
answer, but met her mother’s entreating 
eyes and smiled instead. 
She and Addie and Dick had a splen- 
did time that evening out in the kitchen 
popping corn and laughing, though 
Cousin Jane laid every little inattention 
that occurred for the next three days to 
the fact of having so much company. 
But presently the visit came to an end, 
though Bessie gratified Cousin Jane by 
sewing two evenings on the patchwork, 
and promising to persevere until it was 
finished. 
think my little daughter deserves 
much credit for being so pleasant and 
good-tempered," Mrs. Collins said, the 
next afternoon when they were alone. 
Cousin Jane is trying, but she means 
well, and her spectacles are not of the 
modern sort, so we must excuse her. ' ’ 
" Mamma, how much you have praised 
me lately ! ’ ' 
'‘Bessie, how good and thoughtful you 
have been lately, " her mother said, in al- 
most the same tone, at which they both 
laughed. ‘ ' Ever since you were at your 
grandmother’s.’' 
'Mt wasn’t that,” Bessie returned, 
flushing. 
"Was it your experience at house- 
keeping, then?” 
Yes, mamma, it was, though I was n’t 
half as good as you all thought. And it 
was dreadful?” 
'‘Dick nor your father never made any 
 
complaints, and I found the house in 
pretty good order, except that you al- 
most burnt up one of my baking tins. ' ’ 
was going to scour it, hut I forgot. 
That was not the worst, though. ’ ' 
Don’t you want to tell me all about 
it ? ” her mother asked, in a soft, coaxing 
tone. Though I cannot think it was 
very bad or I should have made some 
discoveries before this.” 
would like to, mamma, for I am 
quite sure that I should never do any of 
the things again. I used to think it 
would be so nice to have my way, and it 
did not seem necessary to work all the 
time, and—” 
‘‘You thought you were wiser than I. 
No uncommon thing for a little girl. T 
believe I was once troubled with the same 
complaint myself. But now for the 
 
story. After I was out of the house 
you— 
Bessie took it up and went on bravely, 
though her cheeks were crimson, and the 
tears came to her eyes. She could n’t see 
how she had ever been so deceitful and 
untrustworthy. Perhaps her mother was 
a little astonished, too, but she saw how 
genuine Bessie’s sorrow was, and under- 
stood how patiently she had worked out 
her own amendment. So she drew her 
to her bosom and kissed her tenderly. 
There are a good many just such 
hard lessons for us to learn through 
life,” she said, kindly. Older people 
are wiser because they have had more 
experience, and have learned the result 
of wrong doing. So they try to warn 
their children, you see. I do not wish to 
deny you any indulgence, Bessie, that it 
would be better for you to have, unless 
it comes at a time to interfere with neces- 
sary work. I give up many pleasures 
for my children’s sake, and try to ask 
them to give up only a few for mine. 
And since we are not rich we must all 
help each other, which will make the 
work light. Besides, I want to guard 
you against selfishness and all its at- 
tendant evils. But I think you have 
learned your lesson pretty well. Like 
Dick, I shall not feel afraid to trust you 
again. ’ ’ 
"If you could only have your pretty 
lace back! Oh, mamma, how can any- 
body—” 
"One sin waits upon another. And 
now, little daughter, we will see how 
much we can help one another in the 
future, and you must believe that I am 
 
always thinking and planning for yonr 
best. ’ ' 
am sure I shall, forever and ever, 
mamma, ’ ’ and she kissed her with 
warmth and sincerity. 
think you have learned a little about 
the higher housekeeping,’' mamma con- 
tinued, softly,— Keep thy heart.” 
OH, dear!'’ Laura Preston sighed, 
impatiently, ‘'there’s the baby 
awake again ! I do wish I 
could have a little time like the other 
girls! They’re all going to Bell Cum- 
mings’s to play croquet, and I meant to 
ask you if I couldn’t go.” 
Laura’s voice choked over a sob. It 
was hard to stay in the house all this 
beautiful weather, to know what fun the 
girls were having, and she out of it all, 
taking care of this tiresome baby. She 
wished there were no such things as 
babies in the world. Saturday, she had 
to give up Annie Graham’s little tea- 
party; Monday afternoon, she had a 
]oretty book, that had to be returned the 
next day, and he wouldn’t let her read a 
line— here it was Wednesday, and it 
seemed to her that she had done nothing 
but take care of him for the last month. 
‘ ' If you could take him in the carriage 
— he’d he so much better for a change 
in the open air.” 
Mrs. Preston uttered this timidly. 
She was so ill and worn, and looked so 
tired, that, at any other time, her little 
daughter ’s heart would have been moved 
with pity. 
‘‘But I couldn’t go there, and I 
shouldn’t want to; they’d all call me 
nurse-maid. I don’t see why Ann can’t 
find some time to take care of the baby. 
She used to, I ’m sure. ’ ’ 
 
“My being sick has made so muck 
more work, you know/’ 
At this the baby gave a cry. Laura 
jerked him up from the cradle, and then 
he screamed. 
‘'You’re aiittle crosspatch.” 
‘‘Bring him to me,” said her mother. 
Laura felt a little ashamed then, and 
cuddled him up between her face and 
neck, and began to whisper softly to him. 
He was very sleepy, and soon shut his 
eyes. 
“I guess he will go to sleep again,” 
she said, in a gentler tone, and began 
walking up and down the room. Yet all 
the time she was thinking of the bright 
sunshine, and the smooth, velvety lawn 
where the girls were going to play cro- 
quet. 
“ Mother,” she said, presently. 
 
couldn’t we have some one come and 
take care of the baby while you are so 
poorly I There’s Jenny Briggs out of a 
place. ’ ’ 
‘‘Mrs. Sayre said Jenny was very 
careless ; that she wouldn ’t trust her with 
a baby. I think I shall be better 
soon. It is real hard for you; I’m 
sorry. ’ ’ 
Something in her mother’s voice 
touched Laura, but she was not in a 
mood to be very tender. Of course, it 
was hard to have to stay in the house all 
the time, and give up everything. 
She laid the baby back in his crib, and 
gave another longing glance out of the 
window. 
“I think you might go,” her mother 
said, presently; “it’s only four now, and 
if you could be back by a little after five. 
Jamie ouglit to take a good long nap; 
he hasn ’t slept hardly any to-day. ’ ’ 
‘ ' Oh ! I should like to so much. ’ ' 
Laura 's conscience checked her. She 
felt that she ought to stay in the house, 
in case she might be needed; hut there 
was Ann downstairs, and if the baby 
would sleep ! 
‘'Yes, you can go.’' 
Mrs. Preston felt that Laura had been 
confined a great deal lately, and the 
frowning face did not promise very 
pleasant companionship. However, it 
cleared up wonderfully now. 
‘‘Oh! thank you, mamma! Ifil be 
back real early. ' ’ 
Laura ran upstairs, and slipped on her 
white dress. Ann had begged her to 
save it nice for another Sunday, “the 
ruffles were so botherin’ to iron”; but it 
was the very ruffles that she liked. Then 
she gave her hair a brush, tied on her 
blue sash, and went down. She ought 
to go in and kiss poor, pale mamma; 
but then she might wake the baby. So 
she stole softly along, lingering a mo- 
ment on the porch. Was that sound the 
little rascal Jamie waking up again? 
No, she guessed not, and down the walk 
she ran. 
They had played one game when she 
reached Bell’s handsome house. She 
was very glad that she had dressed her- 
self so prettily, for here were Bell’s 
cousins, and Mrs. Cummings and some 
lady visitors were looking on. 
