and I didn’t.”
“Oh, I am afraid I was willing to tell it to all kinds of people--to any
kind that would listen.”
“You are trying to evade me, Mr. Hewson,” she said, with a severity he
found charming. “I didn’t expect that of you.”
The appeal was not lost upon Hewson. “What do you want me to say?”
“I want you,” said Miss Hernshaw, with an effect of giving him another
trial, “to say--to acknowledge that you were terribly annoyed by that
interview.”
“If you will excuse me from attaching the slightest blame to you for it,
I will acknowledge that I was annoyed.”
Miss Hernshaw drew a deep breath as of relief. “I will arrange about
the blame,” she said loftily. “And now I wish to tell you how I
never supposed that girl was an interviewer. We were all together
at an artist’s house in Rome, and after dinner, we got to telling
ghost-stories, the way people do, around the fire, and I told mine--yours
I mean. And before we broke up, this girl came to me--it was while we
were putting on our wraps--and introduced herself, and said how much she
had been impressed by my story--of course, I mean your story--and she
said she supposed it was made up. I said I should not dream of making up
a thing of that kind, and that it was every word true, and I had heard
the person it happened to tell it himself. I don’t know! I was vain of
having heard it, so, at first hand.”
“I can understand,” said Hewson, sadly.
“And then I told her who the person was, and where it happened--and about
the burglary. You can’t imagine how silly people get when they begin
going in that direction.”
“I am afraid I can,” said Hewson.
“She seemed very grateful somehow; I couldn’t see why, but I didn’t ask;
and then I didn’t think about it again till I saw it in that awful
newspaper. She sent it to me herself; she was such a simpleton; she
thought I would actually like to see it. She must have written it down,
and sent it to the paper, and they printed it when they got ready to; she
needed the money, I suppose. Then I began to wonder what you would say,
when you remembered how I blamed you for telling the same story--only not
half so bad--at that dinner.”
“I always felt you were quite right,” said Hewson. “I have always thanked
you in my own mind for being so frank with me.”
“Well, and what do you think now, when you know that I was ten times as
bad as you--ten times as foolish and vulgar!”
“I haven’t had time to formulate my ideas yet,” Hewson urged.
“You know perfectly well that you despise me. Can you say that I had any
right to give your name?”
“It must have got out sooner or later. I never asked any one not to
mention my name when I told the story--”
“I see that you think I took a liberty, and I did. But that’s nothing.
That isn’t the point. How I do keep beating about the bush! Mrs. Rock
says it was a great deal worse to tell where it happened, for that would
give the place the reputation of being haunted and nobody could ever live
there afterwards, for they couldn’t keep servants, even if they didn’t
have the creeps themselves, and it would ruin the property.”
Hewson had not been able, when she touched upon this point, to elude the
keen eye with which she read his silent thought.
“Is that true?” she demanded.
“Oh, no; oh, no,” he began, but he could not frame in plausible terms the
lies he would have uttered. He only succeeded in saying, “Those things
soon blow over.”
“Then how,” she said, sternly, “does it happen that in every town and
village, almost, there are houses that you can hardly hire anybody to
live in, because people say they are haunted? No, Mr. Hewson, it’s very
kind of you, and I appreciate it, but you can’t make me believe that it
will ever blow over, about St. Johnswort. Have you heard from Mr. St.
John since?”
“Yes,” Hewson was obliged to own.
“And was he very much troubled about it? I should think he was a man that
would be, from the way he behaved about the burglary. Was he?” she
persisted, seeing that Hewson hesitated.
“Yes, I must say he was.”
There was a sound of walking to and fro in the adjoining room, a quick
shutting as of trunk-lids, a noise as of a skirt shaken out, and steps
advanced to the door. Miss Hernshaw ran to it and turned the key in the
lock. “Not yet, Mrs. Rock,” she called to the unseen presence within, and
she explained to Hewson, as she faced him again, “She promised that I
should have it all out with you myself, and now I’m not going to have her
in here, interrupting. Well, did he write to you?”
“Yes, he wrote to me. He wanted me to deny the story.”
“And did you?”
“Of course not!” said Hewson, with a note of indignation. “It was true.
Besides it wouldn’t have been of any use.”
“No, it would have been wicked and it would have been useless. And then
what did he say?”
“Nothing.”
“Nothing? And you have never heard another word from him?”
“Yes, he came to see me last night.”
“Here in New York? Is he here yet?”
“I suppose so.”
“Where?”
“I believe at the Overpark.”
Miss Hernshaw caught her breath, as if she were going to speak, but she
did not say anything.
“Why do you insist upon all this, Miss Hernshaw?” he entreated. “It can
do you no good to follow the matter up!”
“Do you think I want to do myself good?” she returned. “I want to do
myself harm! What did he say when he came to see you?”
“Well, you can imagine,” said Hewson, not able to keep out of his tone
the lingering disgust he felt for St. John.
“He complained?”
“He all but shed tears,” said Hewson, recalled to a humorous sense of St.
John’s behavior. “I felt sorry for him; though,” he added, darkly, “I
can’t say that I do now.”
Miss Hernshaw didn’t seek to fathom the mystery of his closing words.
“Had he been actually inconvenienced by that thing in the paper?”
“Yes--somewhat.”
“How much?”
“Oh,” Hewson groaned. “If you must know--”
“I must! The worst!”
“It had fairly turned him out of house and home. His servants had all
left him, and he had been reduced to taking his meals at the inn. He
showed me a handful of letters from people whom he had asked to visit
him, withdrawing their acceptances, or making excuses for not accepting.”
“Ah!” said Miss Hernshaw, with a deep, inward breath, as if this now were
indeed something like the punishment she had expected. “And will it--did
he think--did he say anything about the pecuniary effect--the--whether it
would hurt the property?”
“He seemed to think it would,” answered Hewson, reluctantly, and he
added, unfortunately for his generous purpose, “I really can’t enter upon
that part.”
She arched her eyebrows in grieved surprise. “But that is the very part
that I want you to enter upon Mr. Hewson. You must tell me, now! Did he
say that it had injured the property very much?”
“He did, but--”
“But what?”
“I think St. John is a man to put the worst face on that matter.”
“You are saying that to keep me from feeling badly. But I ought to feel
badly--I wish to feel badly. I suppose he said that it wasn’t worth
anything now.”
“Something of that sort,” Hewson helplessly admitted.
“Very well, then, I will buy it for whatever he chooses to ask!” With the
precipitation which characterized all her actions, Miss Hernshaw rose
from the chair in which she had been provisionally sitting, pushed an
electric button in the wall, swirled away to the other side of the room,
unlocked the door behind which those sounds had subsided, and flinging it
open, said, “You can come out, Mrs. Hock; I’ve rung for breakfast.”
Mrs. Rock came smoothly forth, with her vague eyes wandering over every
other object in the room, till they rested upon Hewson, directly before
her. Then she gave him her hand, and asked, with a smile, as if taking
him into the joke. “Well, has Rosalie had it out with you?”
“I have had it out with him, Mrs. Rock,” Miss Hernshaw answered, “and I
will tell you all about it later. Now I want my breakfast.”
XII.
Hewson ate the meal before him, and it was a very good one, as from time
to time he noted, in a daze which was as strange a confusion of the two
consciousnesses as he had ever experienced. Whatever the convention was
between Miss Hernshaw and Mrs. Rock with regard to the matter in hand, or
lately in hand, it dropped, after a few uninterested inquiries from Mrs.
Rock, who was satisfied, or seemed so, to know that Miss Hernshaw had got
at the worst. She led the talk to other things, like the comparative
comforts and discomforts of the line to Genoa and the line to Liverpool;
and Hewson met her upon these polite topics with an apparent fulness of
interest that would have deceived a much more attentive listener.
All the time he was arguing with Miss Hernshaw in his nether
consciousness, pleading with her to keep her away from the fact that he
had himself bought St. Johnswort, until he could frame some fitting
form in which to tell her that he had bought it. With his outward eyes,
he saw her drooping on the opposite side of the table, and in spite of
her declaration that she wanted her breakfast, making nothing of it,
after the preliminary melon, while to his inward vision she was
passionately refusing, by every charming perversity, to be tempted
away from the subject.
As the Cunard boats always get in on Saturday, this morrow of their
arrival was naturally Sunday; and after a while Hewson fancied symptoms
of going to church in Mrs. Rock. She could not have become more vague
than she ordinarily was, but her wanderings were of a kind of devotional
character. She spoke of the American church in Rome, and asked Hewson if
he knew the rector. Then, when he said he was afraid he was keeping her
from going to church, she said she did not know whether Rosalie intended
going. At the same time she rose from the table, and Hewson found that he
should not be allowed to sit down again, unless by violence. He had to go
away, and he went, as little at ease in his mind as he very well could
be.
He was no sooner out of the house than he felt the necessity of
returning. He did not know how or when Miss Hernshaw would write to St.
John, but that she would do so, he did not at all doubt, and then, when
the truth came out, what would she think of him? He did not think her a
very wise person; she seemed to him rather a wild and whirling person in
her ideals of conduct, an unbridled and undisciplined person; and yet he
was aware of profoundly and tenderly respecting her as a creature of the
most inexpugnable innocence and final goodness. He could not bear to have
her feel that he had trifled with her. There had not been many meetings
between them, but each meeting had been of such event that it had
advanced their acquaintance far beyond the point that it could have
reached through weeks of ordinary association. From the first there had
been that sort of intimacy which exists between spirits which encounter
in the region of absolute sincerity. She had never used the least of
those arts which women use in concealing the candor of their natures from
men unworthy of it; she had not only practiced her rule of instant and
constant veracity, but had avowed it, and as it were, invited his
judgment of it. Hitherto, he had met her half-way at least, but now he
was in the coil of a disingenuousness which must more and more trammel
him from her, unless he found some way to declare the fact to her.
This ought to have been an easy matter, but it was not easy; upon
reflection it grew rather more difficult. Hewson did not see how he could
avow the fact, which he wished to avow, without intolerable awkwardness;
without the effect of boasting, without putting upon her a burden which
he had no right to put. To be sure, she had got herself in for it all by
her divine imprudence, but she had owned her error in that as promptly as
if it had been the blame of some one else. Still Hewson doubted whether
her magnanimity was large enough to go round in the case of a man who
tried to let his magnanimity come upon her with any sort of dramatic
surprise. This was what he must seem to be doing if he now left her to
learn from another how he had kept St. John from loss by himself assuming
the chance of depreciation in his property. But if he went and told her
that he had done it, how much better for him would that be?
He took a long, unhappy walk up into the Park, and then he walked back to
the Walholland. By this time he thought Mrs. Rock and Miss Hernshaw must
have been to church, but he had not the courage to send up his name to
them. He waited about in the region of the dining-room, in the senseless
hope that it would be better for him to surprise them on their way to
luncheon, and trust to some chance for introducing his confession, than
to seek a direct interview with Miss Hernshaw. But they did not come to
luncheon, and then Hewson had the clerk send up his card. Word came back
that the ladies would see him, and he followed the messenger to Mrs.
Rock’s apartment, where if he was surprised, he was not disappointed to
be received by Miss Hernshaw alone.
“Mrs. Rock is lying down,” she explained, “but I thought that it might be
something important, and you would not mind seeing me.”
“Not at all,” said Hewson, with what seemed to him afterwards superfluous
politeness, and then they both waited until he could formulate his
business, Miss Hernshaw drooping forward, and looking down in a way that
he had found was most characteristic of her. “It is something
important--at least it is important to me. Miss Hernshaw, may I ask
whether you have done anything--it seems a very unwarrantable
question--about St. Johnswort?”
“About buying it?”
“Yes. It will be useless to make any offer for it.”
“Why will it be useless to do that?”
“Because--because I have bought it myself.”
“You have bought it?”
“Yes; when he came to me last night, and made those
representations--Well, in short, I have bought the place.”
“To save him from losing money by that--story?”
“Well--yes. I ought to have told you the fact this morning, as soon as
you said you would buy the place. I know that you like people to be
perfectly truthful. But--I couldn’t--without seeming to--brag.”
“I understand,” said Miss Hernshaw.
“I took the risk of your writing to St. John; but then I realized that if
he answered and told you what I ought to have told you myself, it would
make it worse, and I came back.”
“I don’t know whether it would have made it worse; but you have come too
late,” said Miss Hernshaw. “I’ve just written to Mr. St. John.”
They were both silent for what Hewson thought a long time. At the end of
it, he asked, “Did you--you must excuse me--refer to me at all?”
“No, certainly not. Why should I?”
“I don’t know. I don’t know that it would have mattered.” He was silent
again, with bowed head; when he looked up he saw tears in the girl’s
eyes.
“I suppose you know where this leaves me?” she said gently.
“I can’t pretend that I don’t,” answered Hewson. “What can I do?”
“You can sell me the place for what it cost you.”
“Oh, no, I can’t do that,” said Hewson.
“Why do you say that? It isn’t as if I were poor; but even then you
wouldn’t have the right to refuse me if I insisted. It was my fault that
it ever came out about St. Johnswort. It might have come out about you,
but the harm to Mr. St. John--I did that, and why should you take it upon
yourself?”
“Because I was really to blame from the beginning to the end. If it had
not been for my pitiful wish to shine as the confidant of mystery,
nothing would have been known of the affair. Even when you asked me that
night if it had not happened at St. Johnswort, I know now that I had a
wretched triumph in saying that it had, and I was so full of this that I
did not think to caution you against repeating what I had owned.”
“Yes,” said the girl, with her unsparing honesty, “if you had given
me any hint, I would not have told for the world. Of course I did not
think--a girl wouldn’t--of the effect it would have on the property.”
“No, you wouldn’t think of that,” said Hewson. Though he agreed with
her, he would have preferred that she should continue to blame herself;
but he took himself severely in hand again. “So, you see, the fault was
altogether mine, and if there is to be any penalty it ought to fall upon
me.”
“Yes,” said Miss Hernshaw, “and if there has been a fault there ought to
be a penalty, don’t you think? It would have been no penalty for me to
buy St. Johnswort. My father wouldn’t have minded it.” She blushed
suddenly, and added, “I don’t mean that--You may be so rich that--I think
I had better stop.”
“No, no!” said Hewson, amused, and glad of the relief. “Go on. I will
tell you anything you wish to know.”
“I don’t wish, to know anything,” said Miss Hernshaw, haughtily.
Her words seemed to put an end to an interview for which there was no
longer any excuse.
Hewson rose. “Good-by,” he said, and he was rather surprised at her
putting out her hand, but he took it gratefully. “Will you make my adieux
to Mrs. Rock? And excuse my coming a second time to trouble you!”
“I don’t see how you could have helped coming,” said Miss Hernshaw, “when
you thought I might write to Mr. St. John at once.”
Whether this implied excuse or greater blame, Hewson had to go away with
it as her final response, and he went away certainly in as great
discomfort as he had come. He did not feel quite well used; it seemed to
him that hard measure had been dealt him on all sides, but especially by
Miss Hernshaw. After her futile effort at reparation to St. John she had
apparently withdrawn from all responsibility in the matter. He did not
know when he was to see her again, if ever, and he did not know what he
was to wait for, if anything.
Still he had the sense of waiting for something, or for some one, and he
went home to wait. There he perceived that it was for St. John, who did
not keep him waiting long. His nervous ring roused Hewson half an hour
after his return, and St. John came in with a look in his greedy eyes
which Hewson rightly interpreted at the first glance.
“See here, Hewson,” St. John said, with his habitual lack of manners. “I
don’t want to get you in for this thing at St. Johnswort. I know why you
offered to buy the place, and though of course you are the original cause
of the trouble, I don’t feel that it’s quite fair to let you shoulder the
consequences altogether.”
“Have I been complaining?” Hewson asked, dryly.
“No, and that’s just it. You’ve behaved like a little man through it all,
and I don’t like to take advantage of you. If you want to rue your
bargain, I’ll call it off. I’ve had some fresh light on the matter, and I
believe I can let you off without loss to myself. So that if it’s me
you’re considering--”
“What’s your fresh light?” asked Hewson.
“Well,” said St. John, and he swallowed rather hard, as if it were a
pill, “the fact is, I’ve had another offer for the place.”
“A better one?”
“Well, I don’t know that I can say that it is,” answered St. John, saving
his conscience in the form of the words.
Hewson knew that he was lying, and he had no mercy on him. “Then I
believe I’ll stick to my bargain. You say that the other party hasn’t
bettered my offer, and so I needn’t withdraw on your account. I’m not
bound to withdraw for any other reason.”
“No, of course not.” St. John rubbed his chin, as if hesitating to eat
his words, however unpalatable; but in the end he seemed not to find it
possible. “Well,” he said, disgustedly, as he floundered up to take his
leave, “I thought I ought to come and give you the chance.”
“It’s very nice of you,” said Hewson, with a smile that made itself a
derisive grin in spite of him, and a laugh of triumph when the door had
closed upon St. John.
XIII.
After the first flush of Hewson’s triumph had passed he began to enjoy it
less, and by-and-by he did not enjoy it at all. He had done right not
only in keeping St. John from plundering Miss Hernshaw, but in standing
firm and taking the punishment which ought to fall upon him and not on
her. But the sense of having done right sufficed him no more than the
sense of having got the better of St. John. What was lacking to him? In
the casuistry of the moment, which was perhaps rather emotional than
rational, it appeared to Hewson that he had again a duty toward Miss
Hernshaw, and that his feeling of dissatisfaction was the first effect of
its non-fulfilment. But it was clearly impossible that he should go again
to see her, and tell her what had passed between him and St. John, and it
was clearly impossible that he should write and tell her what it was
quite as clearly her right to know from him. If he went to her, or wrote
to her, he felt himself in danger of wanting to shine in the affair, as
her protector against the rapacity of St. John, and as the man of
superior quality who had outwitted a greedy fellow. The fear that she
might not admire his splendor in either sort caused him to fall somewhat
nervelessly back upon Providence; but if the moral government of the
universe finally favored him it was not by traversing any of its own
laws. By the time he had determined to achieve both the impossibilities
which formed his dilemma--had decided to write to Miss Hernshaw and call
upon her, and leave his letter in the event of failing to find her--his
problem was as far solved as it might be, by the arrival of a note from
Miss Hernshaw herself, hoping that he would come to see her on business
of pressing importance.
She received him without any pretence of Mrs. Rock’s intermediary
presence, and put before him a letter which she had received, before
writing him, from St. John, and which she could not answer without first
submitting it to him. It was a sufficiently straightforward expression of
his regret that he could not accept her very generous offer for St.
Johnswort because the place was already sold. He had the taste to forbear
any allusion to the motives which (she told Hewson) she had said prompted
her offer; but then he became very darkling and sinuous in a suggestion
that if Miss Hernshaw wished to have her offer known as hers to the
purchaser of St. Johnswort he would be happy to notify him of it.
“You see,” she eagerly commented to Hewson, “he does not give your name;
but I know who it is, though I did not know when I made him my offer. I
must answer his letter now, and what shall I say? Shall I tell him I know
who it is? I should like to; I hate all concealments! Will it do any harm
to tell him I know?”
Hewson reflected. “I don’t see how it can. I was trying to come to you,
when I got your note, to say that St. John had been to see me, and
offered to release me from my offer, because, as I thought, you had made
him a better one. He’s amusingly rapacious, St. John is.”
“And what did you--I beg your pardon!”
“Oh, not at all. I said I would stand to my offer.”
She repressed, apparently, some form of protest, and presently asked,
“And what shall I say?”
“Oh, if you like, that you have learned who the purchaser of St.
Johnswort is, and that you know he will not give way.”
“Well!” she said, with a quick sigh, as of disappointment. After an
indefinite pause, she asked, “Shall you be going to St. Johnswort?”
“Why, I don’t know,” Hewson answered. “I had thought of going to Europe.
But, yes, I think I shall go to St. Johnswort, first, at any rate. One
can’t simply turn one’s back on a piece of real estate in that way,” he
said, recognizing a fact that would doubtless have presented itself in
due order for his consideration. “My one notion was to forget it as
quickly as possible.”
“I should not think you would want to do that,” said the girl, seriously.
“No, one oughtn’t to neglect an investment.”
“I don’t mean that. But if such a thing had happened to me, there, I
should want to go again and again.”
“You mean the apparition? Did I tell you how I had always had the
expectation that I should see it again, and perhaps understand it? But
when I had behaved so shabbily about it, I began to feel that it would
not come again.”
“If I were in your place,” said the girl, “I should never give up; I
should spend my whole life trying to find out what it meant.”
“Ah!” he sighed. “I wish you could put yourself in my place.”
“I wish I could,” she returned, intensely.
They looked into each other’s faces.
“Miss Hernshaw,” he demanded, solemnly, “do you really like people to say
what they think?”
“Of course I do!”
“Then I wish you would come to St. Johnswort with me!”
“Would that do?” she asked. “If Mrs. Rock--”
He saw how far she was from taking his meaning, but he pushed on. “I
don’t want Mrs. Rock. I want you--you alone. Don’t you understand me? I
love you. I--of course it’s ridiculous! We’ve only met three or four
times in our lives, but I knew this as well the first moment as I do now.
I knew it when you came walking across the garden that morning, and I
haven’t known it any better since, and I couldn’t in a thousand years.
But of course--”
“Sit down,” she said, wafting herself into a chair, and he obeyed her. “I
should have to tell my father,” she began.
“Why, certainly,” and he sprang to his feet again.
She commanded him to his chair with an imperative gesture. “I have got
to find out what I think, first, myself. If I were sure that I loved
you--but I don’t know. I believe you are good. I believed that when they
were all joking you there at breakfast, and you took it so nicely; I have
always believed that you were good.”
She seemed to be appealing to him for confirmation, but he could not very
well say that she was right, and he kept silent. “I didn’t like your
telling that story at the dinner, and I said so; and then I went and did
the same thing, or worse; so that I have nothing to say about that. And I
think you have behaved very nobly to Mr. St. John.” As if at some sign of
protest in Hewson, she insisted, “Yes, I do! But all this doesn’t prove
that I love you.” Again she seemed to appeal to him, and this time he
thought he might answer her appeal.
“I couldn’t prove that I love you, but I feel sure of it.”
“And do you believe that we ought to take our feelings for a guide?”
“That’s what people do,” he ventured, with the glimmer of a smile in his
eyes, which she was fixing so earnestly with her own.
“I am not satisfied that it is the right way,” she answered. “If there is
really such a thing as love there ought to be some way of finding it out
besides our feelings. Don’t you think it’s a thing we ought to talk
sensibly about?”
“Of all things in the world; though it isn’t the custom.”
Miss Hernshaw was silent for a moment. Then she said, “I believe I should
like a little time.”
“Oh, I didn’t expect you to answer me at once,--I”
“But if you are going to Europe?”
“I needn’t go to Europe at all. I can go to St. Johnswort, and wait for
your answer there.”
“It might be a good while,” she urged. “I should want to tell my father
that I was thinking about it, and he would want to see you before he
approved.”
“Why, of course!”
“Not,” she added, “that it would make any difference, if I was sure of it
myself. He has always said that he would not try to control me in such a
matter, and I think he would like you. I do like you very much myself,
Mr. Hewson, but I don’t think it would be right to say I loved you unless
I could prove it.”
Hewson was tempted to say that she could prove it by marrying him, but he
had not the heart to mock a scruple which he felt to be sacred. What he
did say was: “Then I will wait till you can prove it. Do you wish me not
to see you again, before you have made up your mind?”
“I don’t know. I can’t see what harm there would be in our meeting.”
 “No, I can’t, either,” said Hewson, as she seemed to refer the point to
him. “Should you mind my coming again, say, this evening?”
“To-night?” She reflected a moment. “Yes, come to-night.”
When he came after dinner, Hewson was sensible from the perfect
unconsciousness of Mrs. Rock’s manner that Miss Hernshaw had been telling
her. Her habit of a wandering eye, contributed to the effect she wished
to produce, if this were the effect, and her success was such that it
might easily have deceived herself. But when Mrs. Rock, in a supreme
exercise of her unconsciousness, left him with the girl for a brief
interval before it was time for him to go, Miss Hernshaw said, “Mrs. Rock
knows about it, and she says that the best way for me to find out will be
to try whether I can live without you.”
“Was that Mrs. Rock’s idea?” asked Hewson, as gravely as he could.
“No it was mine; I suggested it to her; but she approves of it. Don’t
you like it?”
“Yes. I hope I sha’n’t die while you are trying to live without me. Shall
you be very long?” She frowned, and he hastened to say, “I do like your
idea; it’s the best way, and I thank you for giving me a chance.”
“We are going out to my father’s ranch in Colorado, at once,” she
explained. “We shall start to-morrow morning.”
“Oh! May I come to see you off?”
“No, I would rather begin at once.”
“May I write to you?”
“I will write to you--when I’ve decided.”
She gave him her hand, but she would not allow him to keep it for more
than farewell, and then she made him stay till Mrs. Rock came back, and
take leave of her too; he had frankly forgotten Mrs. Rock, who bade him
adieu with averted eyes, and many civilities about seeing him again. She
could hardly have been said to be seeing him then.
XIV.
The difficulties of domestication at St. Johnswort had not been
misrepresented by the late proprietor, Hewson found, when he went to take
possession of his estate. He thought it right in engaging servants to say
openly that the place had the reputation of being haunted, and if he had
not thought it right he would have thought it expedient, for he knew that
if he had concealed the fact it would have been discovered to them within
twenty-four hours of their arrival. His declaration was sufficient at
once with most, who recoiled from his service as if he had himself been a
ghost; with one or two sceptics who seemed willing to take the risks
(probably in a guilty consciousness of records that would have kept them
out of other employ) his confession that he had himself seen the spectre
which haunted St. Johnswort, was equally effective. He prevailed at last
against the fact and his own testimony with a Japanese, who could not be
made to understand the objection to the place, and who willingly went
with Hewson as his valet and general house-workman. With the wife of the
gardener coming in to cook for them during the long daylight, he got on
in as much comfort as he could have expected, and by night he suffered no
sort of disturbance from the apparition. He had expected to be annoyed by
believers in spiritualism, and other psychical inquirers, but it sufficed
with them to learn from him that he had come to regard his experience, of
which he had no more question now than ever, as purely subjective.
It seemed to Hewson, in the six weeks’ time which he spent at St.
Johnswort, waiting to hear from Rosalie (he had come already to think of
her as Rosalie), that all his life was subjective, it passed so like a
dream. He had some outward cares as to the place; he kept a horse in the
stable, where St. John had kept half a dozen, and he had the gardener
look after that as well as the shrubs and vegetables; but all went on in
a suspensive and provisional sort. In the mean time Rosalie’s charm grew
upon him; everything that she had said or looked, was hourly and daily
sweeter and dearer; her truth was intoxicating, beyond the lures of other
women, in which the quality of deceit had once fascinated him. Now, so
late in his youthful life, he realized that there was no beauty but that
of truth, and he pledged himself a thousand times that if she should say
she could not live without him he would henceforward live for truth
alone, and not for the truth merely as it was in her, but as it was in
everything. In those day’s he learned to know himself, as he never had
before, and to put off a certain shell of worldliness that had grown upon
him. In his remoteness from it, New York became very distasteful to him;
he thought with reluctance of going back to it; his club, which had been
his home, now appeared a joyless exile; the life of a leisure class,
which he had made his ideal, looked pitifully mean and little in the
retrospect; he wondered how he could have valued the things that he had
once thought worthy. He did not know what he should replace it all with,
but Rosalie would know, in the event of not being able to live without
him. In that event there was hardly any use of which he could not be
capable. In any other event--he surprised himself by realizing that in
any other event--still the universe had somehow more meaning than it once
had. Somehow, he felt himself an emancipated man.
He began many letters to Rosalie, and some he finished and some not, but
he sent none; and when her letter came at last, he was glad that he had
waited for it in implicit trust of its coming, though he believed she
would have forgiven him if he had not had the patience. The letter was
quite what he could have imagined of her. She said that she had put
herself thoroughly to the test, and she could not live without him. But
if he had found out that he could live without her, then she should know
that she had been to blame, and would take her punishment. Apparently in
her philosophy, which now seemed to him so divine, without punishment
there must be perdition; it was the penalty that redeemed; that was the
token of forgiveness.
Hewson hurried out to Colorado, where he found Hernshaw a stout, silent,
impersonal man, whose notion of the paternal office seemed to be a ready
acquiescence in a daughter’s choice of a husband; he appeared to think
this could be best expressed to Hewson in a good cigar He perceptibly
enjoyed the business details of the affair, but he enjoyed despatching
them in the least possible time and the fewest words, and then he settled
down to the pleasure of a superficial passivity. Hewson could not make
out that he regarded his daughter as at all an unusual girl, and from
this he argued that her mother must have been a very unusual woman. His
only reason for doubting that Rosalie must have got all her originality
from her mother was something that fell from Hernshaw when they were near
the end of their cigars. He said irrelevantly to their talk at that
point, “I suppose you know Rosalie believes in that ghost of yours?”
“Was it a ghost?--I’ve never been sure, myself,” said Hewson.
“How do you explain it?” asked his prospective father-in-law.
“I don’t explain it. I have always left it just as it was. I know that it
was a real experience.”
“I think I should have left it so, too,” said Hernshaw. “That always
gives it a chance to explain itself. If such a thing had happened to me I
should give it all the time it wanted.”
“Well, I haven’t hurried it,” Hewson suggested.
“What I mean,” and Hernshaw stepped to the edge of the porch and threw
the butt of his cigar into the darkness, where it described a glimmering
arc, “is that if anything came to me that would help shore up my
professed faith in what most of us want to believe in, I would take the
common-law view of it. I would believe it was innocent till it proved
itself guilty. I wouldn’t try to make it out a fraud myself.”
“I’m afraid that’s what I’ve really done,” said Hewson. “But before
people I’ve put up a bluff of despising it.”
“Oh, yes, I understand that,” said Hernshaw. “A man thinks that if he
can have an experience like that he must be something out of the common,
and if he can despise it--”
“You’ve hit my case exactly,” said Hewson, and the two men laughed.
XV.
After his marriage, which took place without needless delay, Hewson
returned with his wife to spend their honey-moon at St. Johnswort. The
honey-moon prolonged itself during an entire year, and in this time they
contrived so far to live down its reputation of being a haunted house
that they were able to conduct their ménage on the ordinary terms. They
themselves never wished to lose the sense of something supernatural in
the place, and were never quite able to accept the actual conditions as
final. That is to say, Rosalie was not, for she had taken Hewson’s
apparition under her peculiar care, and defended it against even his
question. She had a feeling (it was scarcely a conviction) that if he
believed more strenuously in the validity of his apparition as an
authorized messenger from the unseen world it would yet come again and
declare its errand. She could not accept the theory that if such a thing
actually happened it could happen for nothing at all, or that the reason
of its occurrence could be indefinitely postponed. She was impatient of
that, as often as he urged the possibility, and she wished him to use a
seriousness of mind in speaking of his apparition which should form some
sort of atonement to it for his past levity, though since she had taken
his apparition into her keeping he had scarcely hazarded any suggestion
concerning it; in fact it had become so much her apparition that he had a
fantastic reluctance from meddling with it.
“You are always requiring a great occasion for it,” he said, at last.
“What greater event could it have foreshadowed or foreshown, than that
which actually came to pass?”
“I don’t understand you, Arthur,” she said, letting her hand creep into
his, where it trembled provisionally as they sat together in the
twilight.
“Why, that was the day I first saw you.”
“Now, you are laughing!” she said, pulling her hand away.
“Indeed, I’m not! I couldn’t imagine anything more important than the
union of our lives. And if that was what the apparition meant to portend
it could not have intimated it by a more noble and impressive behavior.
Simply to be there, and then to be gone, and leave the rest to us! It was
majestic, it was--delicate!”
“Yes, it was. But it was too much, for it was out of proportion. A mere
earthly love-affair--” “Is it merely for earth?”
“Oh, husband, I hope you don’t think so! I wanted you to say you didn’t.
And if you don’t think so, yes, I’ll believe it came for that!”
“You may be sure I don’t think so.”
“Then I know it will come again.”
       *       *       *       *       *
THE ANGEL OF THE LORD.
I.
“All that sort of personification,” said Wanhope, “is far less remarkable
than the depersonification which has now taken place so thoroughly that
we no longer think in the old terms at all. It was natural that the
primitive peoples should figure the passions, conditions, virtues, vices,
forces, qualities, in some sort of corporal shape, with each a propensity
or impulse of its own, but it does not seem to me so natural that the
derivative peoples should cease to do so. It is rational that they should
do so, and I don’t know that any stronger proof of our intellectual
advance could be alleged than the fact that the old personifications
survive in the parlance while they are quite extinct in the
consciousness. We still talk of death at times as if it were an embodied
force of some kind, and of love in the same way; but I don’t believe that
any man of the commonest common-school education thinks of them so. If
you try to do it yourself, you are rather ashamed of the puerility, and
when a painter or a sculptor puts them in an objective shape, you follow
him with impatience, almost with contempt.”
“How about the poets?” asked Minver, less with the notion, perhaps, of
refuting the psychologist than of bringing the literary member of our
little group under the disgrace that had fallen upon him as an artist.
“The poets,” said I, “are as extinct as the personifications.”
“That’s very handsome of you, Acton,” said the artist. “But go on,
Wanhope.”
“Yes, get down to business,” said Rulledge. Being of no employ whatever,
and spending his whole life at the club in an extraordinary idleness,
Rulledge was always using the most strenuous expressions, and requiring
everybody to be practical. He leaned directly forward with the difficulty
that a man of his girth has in such a movement, and vigorously broke off
the ash of his cigar against the edge of his saucer. We had been dining
together, and had been served with coffee in the Turkish room, as it was
called from its cushions and hangings of Indian and Egyptian stuffs.
“What is the instance you’ve got up your sleeve?” He smoked with great
energy, and cast his eyes alertly about as if to make sure that there was
no chance of Wanhope’s physically escaping him, from the corner of the
divan, where he sat pretty well hemmed in by the rest of us, spreading in
an irregular circle before him.
“You unscientific people are always wanting an instance, as if an
instance were convincing. An instance is only suggestive; a thousand
instances, if you please, are convincing,” said the psychologist. “But I
don’t know that I wish to be convincing. I would rather be enquiring.
That is much more interesting, and, perhaps, profitable.”
“All the same,” Minver persisted, apparently in behalf of Rulledge, but
with an after-grudge of his own, “you’ll allow that you were thinking of
something in particular when you began with that generalization about the
lost art of personifying?”
“Oh, that is very curious,” said the psychologist. “We talk of
generalizing, but is there any such thing? Aren’t we always striving from
one concrete to another, and isn’t what we call generalizing merely a
process of finding our way?”
“I see what you mean,” said the artist, expressing in that familiar
formula the state of the man who hopes to know what the other man means.
“That’s what I say,” Rulledge put in. “You’ve got something up your
sleeve. What is it?”
Wanhope struck the little bell on the table before him, but, without
waiting for a response, he intercepted a waiter who was passing with a
coffee-pot, and asked, “Oh, couldn’t you give me some of that?”
The man filled his cup for him, and after Wanhope put in the sugar and
lifted it to his lips, Rulledge said, with his impetuous business air,
“It’s easy to see what Wanhope does his high thinking on.”
“Yes,” the psychologist admitted, “coffee is an inspiration. But you can
overdo an inspiration. It would be interesting to know whether there
hasn’t been a change in the quality of thought since the use of such
stimulants came in--whether it hasn’t been subtilized--”
“Was that what you were going to say?” demanded Rulledge, relentlessly.
“Come, we’ve got no time to throw away!”
Everybody laughed.
“You haven’t, anyway,” said I.
“Well, none of his own,” Minver admitted for the idler.
“I suppose you mean I have thrown it all away. Well, I don’t want to
throw away other peoples’. Go on, Wanhope.”
II.
The psychologist set his cup down and resumed his cigar, which he had to
pull at pretty strongly before it revived. “I should not be surprised,”
 he began, “if a good deal of the fear of death had arisen, and
perpetuated itself in the race, from the early personification of
dissolution as an enemy of a certain dreadful aspect, armed and
threatening. That conception wouldn’t have been found in men’s minds at
first; it would have been the result of later crude meditation upon the
fact. But it would have remained through all the imaginative ages, and
the notion might have been intensified in the more delicate temperaments
as time went on, and by the play of heredity it might come down to our
own day in certain instances with a force scarcely impaired by the lapse
of incalculable time.”
“You said just now,” said Rulledge, in rueful reproach, “that
personification had gone out.”
“Yes, it has. I did say that, and yet I suppose that though such a notion
of death, say, no longer survives in the consciousness, it does survive
in the unconsciousness, and that any vivid accident or illusory
suggestion would have force to bring it to the surface.”
“I wish I knew what you were driving at,” said Rulledge.
“You remember Ormond, don’t you?” asked Wanhope, turning suddenly to me.
“Perfectly,” I said. “I--he isn’t living, is he?”
“No; he died two years ago.”
“I thought so,” I said, with the relief that one feels in not having put
a fellow-creature out of life, even conditionally.
“You knew Mrs. Ormond, too, I believe,” the psychologist pursued.
I owned that I used to go to the Ormonds’ house.
“Then you know what a type she was, I suppose,” he turned to the others,
“and as they’re both dead it’s no contravention of the club etiquette
against talking of women, to speak of her. I can’t very well give the
instance--the sign--that Rulledge is seeking without speaking of her,
unless I use a great deal of circumlocution.” We all urged him to go on,
and he went on. “I had the facts I’m going to give, from Mrs. Ormond. You
know that the Ormonds left New York a couple of years ago?”
He happened to look at Minver as he spoke, and Minver answered: “No; I
must confess that I didn’t even know they had left the planet.”
Wanhope ignored his irrelevant ignorance. “They went to live
provisionally at a place up the Housatonic road, somewhere--perhaps
Canaan; but it doesn’t matter. Ormond had been suffering some time with
an obscure affection of the heart--”
“Oh, come now!” said Rulledge. “You’re not going to spring anything so
pat as heart-disease on us?”
“Acton is all ears,” said Minver, nodding toward me. “He hears the weird
note afar.”
The psychologist smiled. “I’m afraid you’re not interested. I’m not much
interested myself in these unrelated instances.”
“Oh, no!” “Don’t!” “Do go on!” the different entreaties came, and after a
little time taken to recover his lost equanimity, Wanhope went on: “I
don’t know whether you knew that Ormond had rather a peculiar dread of
death.” We none of us could affirm that we did, and again Wanhope
resumed: “I shouldn’t say that he was a coward above other men I believe
he was rather below the average in cowardice. But the thought of death
weighed upon him. You find this much more commonly among the Russians, if
we are to believe their novelists, than among Americans. He might have
been a character out of one of Tourguénief’s books, the idea of death was
so constantly present with him. He once told me that the fear of it was a
part of his earliest consciousness, before the time when he could have
had any intellectual conception of it. It seemed to be something like the
projection of an alien horror into his life--a prenatal influence--”
“Jove!” Rulledge broke in. “I don’t see how the women stand it. To look
forward nearly a whole year to death as the possible end of all they’re
hoping for and suffering for! Talk of men’s courage after that! I wonder
we’re not all marked.’
“I never heard of anything of the kind in Ormond’s history,” said
Wanhope, tolerant of the incursion.
Minver took his cigar out to ask, the more impressively, perhaps, “What
do you fellows make of the terror that a two months’ babe starts in its
sleep with before it can have any notion of what fear is on its own
hook?”
“We don’t make anything of it,” the psychologist answered. “Perhaps the
pathologists do.”
“Oh, it’s easy enough to say wind,” Rulledge indignantly protested.
“Too easy, I agree with you,” Wanhope consented. “We cannot tell what
influences reach us from our environment, or what our environment really
is, or how much or little we mean by the word. The sense of danger seems
to be inborn, and possibly it is a survival of our race life when it was
wholly animal and took care of itself through what we used to call the
instincts. But, as I was saying, it was not danger that Ormond seemed to
be afraid of, if it came short of death. He was almost abnormally
indifferent to pain. I knew of his undergoing an operation that most
people would take ether for, and not wincing, because it was not supposed
to involve a fatal result.
“Perhaps he carried his own anodyne with him,” said Minver, “like the
Chinese.”
“You mean a sort of self-anaesthesia?” Wanhope asked. “That is very
interesting. How far such a principle, if there is one, can be carried in
practice. The hypnotists--”
“I’m afraid I didn’t mean anything so serious or scientific,” said the
painter.
“Then don’t switch Wanhope off on a side track,” Rulledge implored. “You
know how hard it is to keep him on the main line. He’s got a mind that
splays all over the place if you give him the least chance. Now, Wanhope,
come down to business.”
Wanhope laughed amiably. “Why, there’s so very little of the business.
I’m not sure that it wasn’t Mrs. Ormond’s attitude toward the fact that
interested me most. It was nothing short of devout. She was a convert.
She believed he really saw--I suppose,” he turned to me, “there’s no harm
in our recognizing now that they didn’t always get on smoothly together?”
“Did they ever?” I asked.
“Oh, yes--oh, yes,” said the psychologist, kindly. “They were very fond
of each other, and often very peaceful.”
“I never happened to be by,” I said.
“Used to fight like cats and dogs,” said Minver. “And they didn’t seem to
mind people. It was very swell, in a way, their indifference, and it did
help to take away a fellow’s embarrassment.”
“That seemed to come mostly to an end that summer,” said Wanhope, “if you
could believe Mrs. Ormond.”
“You probably couldn’t,” the painter put in.
“At any rate she seemed to worship his memory.”
“Oh, yes; she hadn’t him there to claw.”
“Well, she was quite frank about it with me,” the psychologist pursued.
