because it is so silly — it is the drivehng of a fool. 
He will get me off in a corner now, will he, and 
probe my soul? " Out with it! — Why not con- 
fess that you'd like to live a life of dissipation if 
you only had the money!" Why, you poor 
fool, before I would live such a life, I'd have 
my eyes torn out, and my ears torn off, and 







my fingers, and my hands, and my feet. " Why 
not confess the wild joys of getting drunk on 
champagne!" Poor fool, I have never tasted 
champagne. 

— " Perhaps that is just the reason," you add. 
When the folly of a fool reaches its climax, the 
fool becomes a wit. But possibly that is it, I 
never was drunk. 

— And yet I know something about drunken- 
ness. I once buried a drunkard. He was my 
father. He died in a delirium. 

There must be something young about my 
attitude — men smile at me. But I do not find it 
easy to imagine evil of men. I do not mean the 
crowd — I do not philosophize about the crowd. 
But I mean the artists. I was looking at a pic- 
ture of Musset the other day; it was a noble 
face — the face of a man; and in the face of a man 
I read dignity and power — high things that I 
love and bow before. Here are lips, — and lips 
are things that speak of beauty; here are eyes, — 
and eyes are things that seek the Hght. And now 
to gaze upon that face and say : " This man lived 
in foulness; he was the slave of hateful lust — he 



died rotten, and sodden with drink." — I say that 
I do not find it easy. 

I have nothing to do with any artist who has 
anything to do with sin — anything, one way or 
the other. If a man must still think about sin, 
let him go back, and let him go down, — let him 
be a Christian. Let him wrestle with his body, 
overcome himself, obey laws, and learn fear. 
To such men and to such ways I can only say: " I 
have nothing to do with you." My life is for free 
men — my words are for free men — for men defy- 
ing law and purged of fear, for men mad with 
righteousness. What right have foul men in the 
temple of my muse? The thought of them is in- 
sult to me — away with them — in their presence 
I will not speak of what I love. For I am a 
drunkard — yes, and I am drunk all night and 
all day! And I am a lover — a free lover — 
knowing no law and defying all restraint. And 
how can I say such things in the presence of 
foul men? 

Let not any man think that he can feel the 

love-clasp of my muse while he hides a satyr's 

body underneath his cloak. Free is my muse, 

and bold, fearing not the embrace of man, fearing 







not passion, nor the words of passion, — not the 
throbbing heart, nor the burning brow, nor the 
choking voice. But the warmth of her breath 
and the fire of her eyes, they were kindled at a 
shrine of which the beast does not know. Let 
not any man think that he can kiss the lips of my 
muse while his breath is tainted with the fumes 
of wine! 

An artist is a man with one pleasure — and it 
is not self-indulgence; an artist is a man with one 
virtue — and it is not self-restraint. Sweetly and 
simply will I and my muse take all temptation, 
knowing not that it tempts, and wondering at 
the clamor of men. I will eat and drink that I 
may be nourished, I will sleep that I may be 
rested, I will dress that I may be warm. When 
I go among men it shall be to speak the truth, 
and when I press a woman to my heart, it shall 
be that a man may be born into the world. There 
is but one sin that I know, and that is dulness; 
there is but one virtue, and that is fire. And for 
the rest, I love pleasure, and hold it sweetest and 
holiest of all the words I know; the guide-post 
of all righteousness is pleasure — which whoso 
learns to read may follow all his days. 


September ist. 
" The reason for delay in replying to your 
letter is that it was mislaid. I am directed by Mr. 

to say that he has so many requests to read 

manuscripts that he is compelled to make it an 
invariable rule to decline. 



" Secretary." 

So that hope is gone! 

That letter — or rather the chain of thoughts 
which it brought me, made me feel ill to-night. 
" So many requests! " " An invariable rule! " 

So many swarming millions, helpless, useless, 
dying unknown and unheeded. And I am in the 
midst of them — helpless, unknown, and unheed- 
ed! And now that I have done my work, I can 
not find any one with faith enough — interest 
enough — even to look at it! 

How could a man who is a poet — who writes 
things that stir the hearts of men — how could he 
send such an answer to such a letter as I wrote 
him? I do not think that I shall ever send such 
an answer! 

Or is it really true, then, that the world is 
such a thing that it closes the hearts even of 






poets? That his ardor and his consecration, his 
sympathy and love and trust — he gives all to the 
things of his dreams and never to the men and 
women he meets? 

Oh how shall I find one — just one — warm- 
hearted man! 

I begin the trying of the publishers once 
more to-morrow. 

September 2d. 

I am in my sixth week! Two weeks of the 
money is nearly gone — I had to get another pair 
of shoes and a necktie and to have some things 
laundered twice. I have to be respectable now, 
I can not wash my own clothes at the faucet when 
no one is about. 

My " room " costs me seventy-five cents a 
week, and my food from a dollar and a half to two 
dollars. At the end of the seventh week I shall 
have over fifty dollars clear. I have made up my 
mind to give up the place at the end of that time. 
Twelve dollars is the most I ever earned, but I 
can't stand it longer than that. 

I shall be clear for nearly four months, and 
that will surely put me safe until I have found a 
publisher. I would go away into the country 


again, only I must have books. I have nothing 
to write now. 

— Oh the heat of this dreadful city; some- 
times it takes all my strength to bear that and my 
drudgery, and nothing else. When the night 
comes I am panting, and can only shut my eyes. 

If I am kept here long, I tell you I shall never, 
as long as I live, be as strong and keen as I might 
have been. 

So long as I was working, striving for an 
education, preparing myself, I could bear it. But 
now I have done all that I can do amid these sur- 
roundings. I cry out day and night, " I have 
earned my freedom! " 

September 6th. 

He had no business to send me that answer! 
He had no business to send it! I care not how 
many such requests he gets! Pain throbbed in 
that letter, hunger and agony were in it; and if 
he were a man he would have known it! He had 
no business to send me that answer! I shall 
never forgive him for it. 

The last publisher said it would take a month; 
they had many manuscripts on hand, and could 






not do any better. So I have only to set my 
teeth together and wait. 

I count the davs before m}" escape from that 
hideous place down-town. The thought of it 
drives me wiM — it gets more and more a torture. 
Can I stay out the week? I ask. 

September 8th. 

All daj' — all day — I have but one thought in 
my mind — but one thought in my life! I am be- 
set by it, I can not escape it. That horrible 
shame to which I am subjected! 

It turns all my life to gall! It beats down my 
enthusiasm, it jeers at my faith, it spits into the 
face of my tmselfishness! I come home even.- 
night weak and worn and filled with despair, or 
else with a choking in my throat, and helpless, 
cruel rage in my soul. Xever mind that I am go- 
ing to be free — the wrong is that it should ever 
have been — it will stay with me all mj- days and 
turn all my life to gall! It will wreck all my - 
sions, all mj- aspirations, my faith, my eagerness: 
the memory of it will sound like a mocking voice 
in my ears, a sneer! 

Day by day I strive and struggle and tear my- 
self to pieces, and sink back worn out; and 

don't you suppose that has any effect upon me? 
I can feel it. I see it plain as day, and shudder 
at it — I am being cowed! I am being tamed, 
subdued, overpowered; the thing is like a great 
cold hand that is laid upon me, pressing me down, 
smothering me! I know it — and I cry out and 
struggle as if in a nightmare ; but it only presses 
the harder. Why, I was Hke a lion — restless — 
savage — all-devouring! Never-ceasing, eager, 
untamable — hungry for life, for experience, for 
power! I rushed through in days what others 
took months at — I watched every instant — I 
crowded hours into it. 

— And now look at me ! I crouch and wnine 
— there is an endless moan in my soul. Can you 
break a man's spirit so that he never rises again? 
So that all his attempts to be what he was mock 
at him? So that he never fries any more? Look 
at those poor wretches you pass on the street — 
those peasants from Europe, from Russia! See 
the restless, shifting eyes, the cringing gait — 
that is what it is to be tamed ! 

Hateful tyrant of the commonplace — so you 
will lay your cold hand over me and crush out 


all the fire from my heart. All this that was to 
build new empires — new hopes, new virtues, new 
power; all that I was, and all that I sought to be! 
Ah, but you will not crush me — understand it 
well, you may beat me and kick me, you may 
starve me to death, but you will never overcome 
me, you will never tame me into one of the pack- 
horses of society! I will fight while I have a 
breath in me, while my heart has left one beat. 

The time may come when I shall have to drag 
myself away like a sick beast to die in the moun- 
tains; but if it does, I shall go defying you! 

Bah! 

— How I wish I could find a rich man who 
could spare it, and from whom I could steal a 
thousand dollars. I would turn it into a thou- 
sand songs that diamonds could not buy — that 
would build new empires — and then I would 
pay the poor rich man back. 

— I read a poem of Matthew Arnold's last 
night : 

From the world's temptations. 
From tribulations ; 
From that fierce anguish 
Wherein we languish ; 

From that torpor deep 
Wherein we he asleep, 
Heavy as death, cold as the grave. 
Save, oh save ! 

September loth. 

A man was talking to me to-day about what 
I am doing. " I should think you would try to 
get some work more congenial," he said, " some 
literary work." Yes! — I sell wholesale-paper, 
and that is bad enough; but at least I do not sell 
my character. 

I to enter into the literary business world! I 
to forsake my ideals and my standards — to learn 
to please the public and the men who make 
money out of the public ! Ah, no — let me go on 
selling paper, and " keep my love as a thing apart 
— no heathen shall look therein! " 

What could I do, besides? And who would 
give me a chance? I could not review books — 
I know nothing about modern books, and still 
less about modern book standards. Neither do 
I know anything to write that any magazines 
would want. 

— And besides, in four days more, shall I not 






have fifty or sixty dollars? And what shall I 
want then? 

Ah, how I count the days! And when I am 
out of this place, how I will run away from it! 
The very books I read while I was there will 
always be painful to me. 

— They will be glad to get rid of me, too. 
Poor me — I have given up trying to be under- 
stood. All these things pass. My business is 
with God. 

Cicero thinks that the remembering of past 
sorrows is a pleasure. Yes, when the sorrows are 
beautiful, noble. But I have sorrows in my life, 
the thoughts of which send through my whole 
frame — literally and physically — a spasm. 

September nth. 
I told the bald-headed, grim-visaged senior- 
partner to-day that I was going to leave. He 
seemed surprised — ofifered me a " raise." I 
told him I was going out of New York. 

— I am a liar. Sometimes I philosophize 
about that. I am an unprincipled idealist. I have 




 



not the least respect for fact; I am doing my 
work. If I could help my work, I would lie 
serenely in all the six languages I know. And 
if I were caught, I would say, " Why, yes, of 
course! " 

I think I would rather have a finger cut off 
than say to a New York business man, " I am a 
poet! " 

September 12th. 

I have been forcing myself to read Gibbon, 
but half of him was all I could stand. I think with 
astonishment of the reputation of this history, a 
bare recital of facts, without the least interest or 
importance, and a recital by the shallowest of 
men! 

The vulgarity of his character is more evi- 
dent than ever since the repressed parts of his 
biography have appeared. It is comical. And 
this man, who has no more understanding of 
spirituality than a cow, to tell the story of the 
greatest movement of the soul of man in his- 
tory! 

There is not one gleam of the Christian super- 
stition left in me. I have nothing to fear from the 
sneers of Gibbon any more than I have from 
those of Voltaire ; but I do not care to hear lec- 






tures on the steam-engine by a man who does 
not believe in steam. 



— Some of these days — the last thing that I 
can see on the horizon of my future — I am going 
to write a tragedy called Jesus. The time is 
past, it seems to me, when an artist must leave 
alone the greatest art-theme of the ages. 

Is it not the greatest? Is there any story in 
history more sublime than the story of this man? 
A humble, ignorant peasant he was, and out of 
the faith of his soul he made the future of the 
world for centuries! It is a thing that makes 
your brain reel. 

I write it casually, but I have shuddered over 
it far into the deep, deep night. I have dreamed 
of two acts — one of them Gethsemane, and the 
other Calvary. — Poor fool, perhaps I shall never 
write them! 

I have burrowed into that soul, seeking out 
the truths of it; the truths, as distinguished from 
the ten thousand fancies of men. When I write 
that drama I shall deal with those truths. 

The climax of the scene in the garden of 
Gethsemane will be a vision in which looms up 


before him the whole history of Christianity; and 
that will be the last agony. It will be then that 
he sweats blood. 

That will be something, I think. 

September 13th. 

To-morrow is the last time I shall ever go 
into that hellish place! To-morrow is the last 
time in all my life that I shall ever have to say, 
" We have this same quality in ninety-pound 
paper at four sixty-nine! " 

Throughout all this thing it seemed to me 
that when I came out I should no longer have a 
soul. But it is not so; I shall still keep at it 
grimly. 

September 14th. 

And now to-day I make my plans. I must 
keep near a library; but I shall hunt out a room 
up-town. There I can be near the Park, and I 
'shall suffer a little less from these hideous noises. 
I shall go over there and spend every day — find 
out some place where there are not too many 
nurse-girls! 

I can not begin any other book; I must 
stand or fall by The Captive. I shall be a " homo 
unius libri " ! 




But I can not attempt to write again — ever — 
in these circumstances. It is not that my force 
is spent — I am only at the beginning of my life, 
I see everything in the future. But I could not 
vvrestle with these outside things again — it took 
all my courage and all my strength to do it once. 

There is no reason why I should worry about 
that. I have fifty-six dollars, and I am free for 
four months, barring accidents. And surely I 
shall have found some one to love my book by 
that time ! 

And so I set to work reading. 

September 15th. 
A slight preliminary, of course. I spent a 
ghastly day hunting for a room. I found one in 
a sufficiently dirty and cheap place, and then I 
spent another hour finding a man who would 
take my trunk for a quarter. Having succeeded 
in that, I walked up there to save five cents; and 
when the trunk came the driver tried to charge 
me fifty cents ! 

Picture me haggling and arguing on the 
steps — " Didn't know it was so far — Man didn't 



understand "' — God knows what else! And then 
he tries to carry off the trunk — and I rush- 
ing behind, looking for a poHceman! Again 
more arguing, and a crowd, of course. At last 
it appears that I have to pay him what he asks 
and go down to the City Hall and make my 
complaint — hadn't told him how many steps 
there were, etc. So finally I agree to carry 
it up the steps myself, if he'll only leave it for 
a quarter! 

Next you must picture me breaking mj- back 
and tearing my fingers and the damned wall pa- 
per — while the damned frowsy-headed landlady 
yells and the damned frowsy-headed boarders 
stick out their heads! And so in the end I get 
into my steaming hot room and shut the 
door and fall down on the bed and burst into 
tears. 

O God, the stings of this bitter, haunting, 
horrible poverty! The ghastly weight that has 
hung about mj- neck since ever I can remember! 
Oh, shall I ever be free from it? Shall I ever 
know what it is to have what I ought to have, to 
think of my work without the intrusion of these 
degrading pettinesses? 


They are so infinite, so endless, so hideous! 
The thing gets to be a habit of my thoughts; my 
whole nature is steeped and soaked in it — in filthy 
sordidness! I plot and I plan all the day — I can 
not buy a newspaper without hesitating and 
debating — I am like a ragpicker going about the 
streets! 

Sometimes the thing goads me so that I think 
I must go mad — when I think of the time that I 
lose, of the power, of the courage! I walk miles 
when I am exhausted, to save a car-fare! I wear 
ragged collars and chafe my neck ! I stand wait- 
ing in foul-smelling grocery shops with crowds of 
nasty people! I cook what I eat in a half-dirty 
frying-pan because I can not afford to pay the 
servant to wash it! So it is that I drag myself 
about — chafing and goaded — crouching and 
cringing like a whipped cur! 

My God, when will I be free? My God! My 
God! 

— The boarding-houses that I have been in! 
The choice collection of memories that I have 
stored away in my mind, memories of boarding- 
houses! The landladies' faces — the assorted 
stenches — the dark hallways — the gabbling, 


quarreling, filthy, beer-carrying tenants! Oh, I 
wring my hands and something clutches me in 
my heart! Let me go! Let me go! 

Six times in the course of my life, when I have 
been starved sick on my own feeding, I have be- 
come a " table-boarder " ; and out of those six 
experiences I could make myself another Zola. 
The infinite variety of animality in those six vile 
stables — the champing jaws and the slobbering 
mouths and the rank odor of food! The men 
who shoveled with their knives or plastered 
things on their forks as hod-carriers do mortar! 
The women who sucked in their soup, and the 
children who smeared their faces and licked 
their lips and slopped upon the table-cloth! The 
fat Dutchman who grunted when he ate, and then 
leaned back and panted! The yellow woman 
with the false teeth who gathered everything 
about her on the table! The flashy gentleman 
with the diamond scarf-pin and the dirty cufTs, 
who made a tower out of his dirty dishes and then 
sucked his teeth! O God! 

And the loathsome food! — For seven years I 
have had my nose stamped into this mud, and 
all in vain; I can still starve, but I can not eat 
what is not clean. 







— Some day I shall put into a book all the 
rage and all the hate and all the infamy of these 
things, and it will be a book that will make your 
flesh sizzle. And you will wonder why I did it! 

It will be better than Troilus and Cressida, 
better than the end of Gulliver's Travels — better 
than Swellfoot the Tyrant! 

I wonder why nobody else ever reads or men- 
tions Swellfoot the Tyrant? I call it the most 
whole-hearted, thorough-going, soul-satisfying 
piece of writing in any language that I know. 

— When you think of my work you must 
think of these things! I do not mention them 
often, but they are never out of my mind. If 
you should read anything beautiful of mine, you 
must bear in mind that it is about half a chance 
that there was a dirty child screaming out in the 
hall while I wrote it. 

September 20th. 
It took me a couple of days to realize that I 
have still not to go down-town. But I have a fine 
facility in making myself new habits! Just now 
I am on a four months' studying campaign. It is 
monotonous — to read about. I get up at six, 

and when I have had my breakfast and fixed a 
lunch, I go over into the Park. There are only 
birds and squirrels and a few tramps about then, 
and it is glorious. Sometimes I am so happy 
that I do not want to read ; later come the squall- 
ing children and the hot sun; but I flit about 
from place to place. I wonder what they think of 

me! — 

Wer bist du, und was fehlt dir ! 

I read all day, right straight along, and all 
night, now that it is not too hot. I have always 
done my reading by periods — I read our nine- 
teenth-century poets that way, sixteen hours a 
day; I read Shakespeare in three weeks that way, 
and finished the month with Milton. So when I 
got German, I read Goethe and Schiller, and 
Moliere and Hugo again. 

Now I am reading history; it gives me the 
nightmare, but one has to read it. 

Every night when I put down my book, I 
flee in thought to my own land as to a city of 
refuge. A history where everything counts ! A 
history that is not a mad, blind chaos of blood and 
horror! A history that has other meaning than 
the drunken lust and the demon pride of a Napo- 
leon or a Louis le Grand! 






— Some day the ages will discern two move- 
ments in history: the first, the Christian dis- 
pensation, and the second the American. 

There is a great deal in knowing how to read, 
especially with such books as history. I try to 
read as I write; to lash my author, to make him fill 
my mind. If he gets sluggish I am soon through 
with him — I read whole paragraphs in a sentence, 
and whole volumes in an hour. 

September 25th. 

The third week of the publisher's month has 
gone by. God, how cruel is waiting! I wonder 
if their readers knew how hungry I am if they 
would not hurry a little! 

I say to myself — " There has been enotigh of 
this nonsense! Oh, surely there will not be any 
more, surely these men must take it! " 

September 28th. 
I still read the literary journals and tingle 
with excitement thinking of the time when The 
Captive is discussed in them. Can I believe that 
this book will not stir the world? If I did not 
believe it, I could not believe anything! 

I feel a new interest now in the authors that 
people talk about. I want to know who they are 

and what they do. And all the time I find my- 
self thinking: " Have I more than this man? — 
More than that man? " That always throws me 
into despair, because I am a great admirer; and 
because I am always hypnotized by the last thing 
that I read. 

But I find very little that is great in modern 
books. Books are better made now than they 
ever were before — I mean in the way of literary 
craftsmanship. As far as form goes, there is no 
author living who would put together such a 
hodge-podge as Wilhelm Meister, or La Nou- 
velle Helo'ise. But they all imitate each other; 
they are all mild and tame; there is no real 
power, no genius among them. They have even 
forgotten it exists. 

I came across this, for instance, the other day 
in a book of Mr. Howells's: 

" In fact, the whole belief in genius seems to 
me rather a mischievous superstition, and if not 
mischievous, always, still always, a superstition. 
From the account of those who talk about it, 
genius appears to be the attribute of a very po- 
tent and admirable prodigy which God has created
out of the common for the astonishment and 
confusion of the rest of us poor human be- 
ings. Do they mean anything more or less than 
the mastery which comes to any man in accord- 
ance with his powers and dihgence in any direc- 
tion? If not, why not have an end to the super- 
stition which has caused our race to go on for so 
long writing and reading of the difference be- 
tween talent and genius? " 

Is not that simply blasphemous? 

— Have I genius? Ah, save the word! 

How can I know? It is none of my affair — 
I do my work. 

Genius is next to the last and most sacred 
word we know, next to God; and next to the 
most abused word. Every man will possess it, 
in degree proportionate to his vanity. I think if 
they knew the work and the terror that goes with 
even a grasp at it, they would not make so free 
with it. 

September 30th. 

I wait — I wait for The Captive. I do all these 

other things — I read, I think, I study — but all 

the while I am merely passing the time. I am 

waiting for The Captive to win me the way. All 


my life hangs on that, I can do nothing else but 
pray for that — pray for it and yearn for it! 

— Yes — and do you know it? — I am sinking 
down every day! Down, down! The Captive is 
my high- water mark; where I was when I wrote 
that I shall never come again in my life — until I 
am given my freedom and new courage, and can 
set to work to toil as I did then! 

Tell me not about future books, foolish pub- 
lishers! I have told you I put all that I had and 
all that I was into that book! And by that book 
I stand or I fall. 

October 3d. 

Their month is up. I walked down there to- 
day and saw them. " The manuscript is now be- 
ing read — we are awaiting a second report." 

A second! That made my heart go like mad. 
" Does that mean that the first is favorable? " I 
asked. 

" It means that we are interested in it," the 
man answered; " we will let you know shortly." 

Oh this waiting, this waiting! 

October 8th. 
