“Doubt what?” Fanny pressed as she waited.

“Well, that he must feel how much less than she he pays--and how that
ought to keep her present to him.”

This, in its turn, after an instant, Mrs. Assingham could meet with a
smile. “Trust him, my dear, to keep her present! But trust him also to
keep himself absent. Leave him his own way.”

“I’ll leave him everything,” said Maggie. “Only--you know it’s my
nature--I THINK.”

“It’s your nature to think too much,” Fanny Assingham a trifle coarsely
risked.

This but quickened, however, in the Princess the act she reprobated.
“That may be. But if I hadn’t thought--!”

“You wouldn’t, you mean, have been where you are?”

“Yes, because they, on their side, thought of everything BUT that. They
thought of everything but that I might think.”

“Or even,” her friend too superficially concurred, “that your father
might!”

As to this, at all events, Maggie discriminated. “No, that wouldn’t have
prevented them; for they knew that his first care would be not to make
me do so. As it is,” Maggie added, “that has had to become his last.”

Fanny Assingham took it in deeper--for what it immediately made her give
out louder. “HE’S splendid then.” She sounded it almost aggressively; it
was what she was reduced to--she had positively to place it.

“Ah, that as much as you please!”

Maggie said this and left it, but the tone of it had the next moment
determined in her friend a fresh reaction. “You think, both of you, so
abysmally and yet so quietly. But it’s what will have saved you.”

“Oh,” Maggie returned, “it’s what--from the moment they discovered we
could think at all--will have saved THEM. For they’re the ones who are
saved,” she went on. “We’re the ones who are lost.”

“Lost--?”

“Lost to each other--father and I.” And then as her friend appeared to
demur, “Oh yes,” Maggie quite lucidly declared, “lost to each other much
more, really, than Amerigo and Charlotte are; since for them it’s just,
it’s right, it’s deserved, while for us it’s only sad and strange and
not caused by our fault. But I don’t know,” she went on, “why I talk
about myself, for it’s on father it really comes. I let him go,” said
Maggie.

“You let him, but you don’t make him.”

“I take it from him,” she answered.

“But what else can you do?”

“I take it from him,” the Princess repeated. “I do what I knew from the
first I SHOULD do. I get off by giving him up.”

“But if he gives you?” Mrs. Assingham presumed to object. “Doesn’t it
moreover then,” she asked, “complete the very purpose with which he
married--that of making you and leaving you more free?”

Maggie looked at her long. “Yes--I help him to do that.”

Mrs. Assingham hesitated, but at last her bravery flared. “Why not call
it then frankly his complete success?”

“Well,” said Maggie, “that’s all that’s left me to do.”

“It’s a success,” her friend ingeniously developed, “with which you’ve
simply not interfered.” And as if to show that she spoke without levity
Mrs. Assingham went further. “He has made it a success for THEM--!”

“Ah, there you are!” Maggie responsively mused. “Yes,” she said the next
moment, “that’s why Amerigo stays.”

“Let alone it’s why Charlotte goes.” that Mrs. Assingham, and
emboldened, smiled “So he knows--?”

But Maggie hung back. “Amerigo--?” After which, however, she blushed--to
her companion’s recognition.

“Your father. He knows what YOU know? I mean,” Fanny faltered--“well,
how much does he know?” Maggie’s silence and Maggie’s eyes had in fact
arrested the push of the question--which, for a decent consistency, she
couldn’t yet quite abandon. “What I should rather say is does he know
how much?” She found it still awkward. “How much, I mean, they did. How
far”--she touched it up--“they went.”

Maggie had waited, but only with a question. “Do you think he does?”

“Know at least something? Oh, about him I can’t think. He’s beyond me,”
 said Fanny Assingham.

“Then do you yourself know?”

“How much--?”

“How much.”

“How far--?”

“How far.”

Fanny had appeared to wish to make sure, but there was something she
remembered--remembered in time and even with a smile. “I’ve told you
before that I know absolutely nothing.”

“Well--that’s what I know,” said the Princess.

Her friend again hesitated. “Then nobody knows--? I mean,” Mrs.
Assingham explained, “how much your father does.”

Oh, Maggie showed that she understood. “Nobody.”

“Not--a little--Charlotte?”

“A little?” the Princess echoed. “To know anything would be, for her, to
know enough.”

“And she doesn’t know anything?”

“If she did,” Maggie answered, “Amerigo would.”

“And that’s just it--that he doesn’t?”

“That’s just it,” said the Princess profoundly.

On which Mrs. Assingham reflected. “Then how is Charlotte so held?”

“Just by that.”

“By her ignorance?”

“By her ignorance.” Fanny wondered. “A torment--?”

“A torment,” said Maggie with tears in her eyes.

Her companion a moment watched them. “But the Prince then--?”

“How is HE held?” Maggie asked.

“How is HE held?”

“Oh, I can’t tell you that!” And the Princess again broke off.



                            XLI

A telegram, in Charlotte’s name, arrived early--“We shall come and ask
you for tea at five, if convenient to you. Am wiring for the Assinghams
to lunch.” This document, into which meanings were to be read, Maggie
promptly placed before her husband, adding the remark that her father
and his wife, who would have come up the previous night or that morning,
had evidently gone to an hotel. The Prince was in his “own” room, where
he often sat now alone; half-a-dozen open newspapers, the “Figaro”
 notably, as well as the “Times,” were scattered about him; but, with a
cigar in his teeth and a visible cloud on his brow, he appeared actually
to be engaged in walking to and fro. Never yet, on thus approaching
him--for she had done it of late, under one necessity or another,
several times--had a particular impression so greeted her; supremely
strong, for some reason, as he turned quickly round on her entrance. The
reason was partly the look in his face--a suffusion like the flush of
fever, which brought back to her Fanny Assingham’s charge, recently
uttered under that roof, of her “thinking” too impenetrably. The word
had remained with her and made her think still more; so that, at first,
as she stood there, she felt responsible for provoking on his part an
irritation of suspense at which she had not aimed. She had been going
about him these three months, she perfectly knew, with a maintained
idea--of which she had never spoken to him; but what had at last
happened was that his way of looking at her, on occasion, seemed a
perception of the presence not of one idea, but of fifty, variously
prepared for uses with which he somehow must reckon. She knew herself
suddenly, almost strangely, glad to be coming to him, at this hour, with
nothing more abstract than a telegram; but even after she had stepped
into his prison under her pretext, while her eyes took in his face
and then embraced the four walls that enclosed his restlessness, she
recognised the virtual identity of his condition with that aspect of
Charlotte’s situation for which, early in the summer and in all the
amplitude of a great residence, she had found, with so little seeking,
the similitude of the locked cage. He struck her as caged, the man
who couldn’t now without an instant effect on her sensibility give an
instinctive push to the door she had not completely closed behind her.
He had been turning twenty ways, for impatiences all his own, and when
she was once shut in with him it was yet again as if she had come to him
in his more than monastic cell to offer him light or food. There was
a difference none the less, between his captivity and Charlotte’s--the
difference, as it might be, of his lurking there by his own act and
his own choice; the admission of which had indeed virtually been in
his starting, on her entrance, as if even this were in its degree an
interference. That was what betrayed for her, practically, his fear of
her fifty ideas, and what had begun, after a minute, to make her wish to
repudiate or explain. It was more wonderful than she could have told;
it was for all the world as if she was succeeding with him beyond her
intention. She had, for these instants, the sense that he exaggerated,
that the imputation of purpose had fairly risen too high in him. She had
begun, a year ago, by asking herself how she could make him think more
of her; but what was it, after all, he was thinking now? He kept his
eyes on her telegram; he read it more than once, easy as it was, in
spite of its conveyed deprecation, to understand; during which she found
herself almost awestruck with yearning, almost on the point of marking
somehow what she had marked in the garden at Fawns with Charlotte--that
she had truly come unarmed. She didn’t bristle with intentions--she
scarce knew, as he at this juncture affected her, what had become of the
only intention she had come with. She had nothing but her old idea, the
old one he knew; she hadn’t the ghost of another. Presently in fact,
when four or five minutes had elapsed, it was as if she positively,
hadn’t so much even as that one. He gave her back her paper, asking with
it if there were anything in particular she wished him to do.

She stood there with her eyes on him, doubling the telegram together
as if it had been a precious thing and yet all the while holding her
breath. Of a sudden, somehow, and quite as by the action of their merely
having between them these few written words, an extraordinary fact came
up. He was with her as if he were hers, hers in a degree and on a
scale, with an intensity and an intimacy, that were a new and a strange
quantity, that were like the irruption of a tide loosening them where
they had stuck and making them feel they floated. What was it that, with
the rush of this, just kept her from putting out her hands to him, from
catching at him as, in the other time, with the superficial impetus he
and Charlotte had privately conspired to impart, she had so often, her
breath failing her, known the impulse to catch at her father? She
did, however, just yet, nothing inconsequent--though she couldn’t
immediately have said what saved her; and by the time she had neatly
folded her telegram she was doing something merely needful. “I wanted
you simply to know--so that you mayn’t by accident miss them. For it’s
the last,” said Maggie.

“The last?”

“I take it as their good-bye.” And she smiled as she could always smile.
“They come in state--to take formal leave. They do everything that’s
proper. Tomorrow,” she said, “they go to Southampton.”

“If they do everything that’s proper,” the Prince presently asked, “why
don’t they at least come to dine?”

She hesitated, yet she lightly enough provided her answer. “That we
must certainly ask them. It will be easy for you. But of course they’re
immensely taken--!”

He wondered. “So immensely taken that they can’t--that your father
can’t--give you his last evening in England?”

This, for Maggie, was more difficult to meet; yet she was still not
without her stop-gap. “That may be what they’ll propose--that we shall
go somewhere together, the four of us, for a celebration--except that,
to round it thoroughly off, we ought also to have Fanny and the Colonel.
They don’t WANT them at tea, she quite sufficiently expresses; they
polish them off, poor dears, they get rid of them, beforehand. They want
only us together; and if they cut us down to tea,” she continued, “as
they cut Fanny and the Colonel down to luncheon, perhaps it’s for the
fancy, after all, of their keeping their last night in London for each
other.”

She said these things as they came to her; she was unable to keep them
back, even though, as she heard herself, she might have been throwing
everything to the winds. But wasn’t that the right way--for sharing his
last day of captivity with the man one adored? It was every moment more
and more for her as if she were waiting with him in his prison--waiting
with some gleam of remembrance of how noble captives in the French
Revolution, the darkness of the Terror, used to make a feast, or a
high discourse, of their last poor resources. If she had broken with
everything now, every observance of all the past months, she must simply
then take it so--take it that what she had worked for was too near,
at last, to let her keep her head. She might have been losing her head
verily in her husband’s eyes--since he didn’t know, all the while, that
the sudden freedom of her words was but the diverted intensity of her
disposition personally to seize him. He didn’t know, either, that this
was her manner--now she was with him--of beguiling audaciously the
supremacy of suspense. For the people of the French Revolution,
assuredly, there wasn’t suspense; the scaffold, for those she was
thinking of, was certain--whereas what Charlotte’s telegram announced
was, short of some incalculable error, clear liberation. Just the
point, however, was in its being clearer to herself than to him; her
clearnesses, clearances--those she had so all but abjectly laboured
for--threatened to crowd upon her in the form of one of the clusters
of angelic heads, the peopled shafts of light beating down through iron
bars, that regale, on occasion, precisely, the fevered vision of those
who are in chains. She was going to know, she felt, later on--was going
to know with compunction, doubtless, on the very morrow, how thumpingly
her heart had beaten at this foretaste of their being left together:
she should judge at leisure the surrender she was making to the
consciousness of complications about to be bodily lifted. She should
judge at leisure even that avidity for an issue which was making so
little of any complication but the unextinguished presence of the
others; and indeed that she was already simplifying so much more than
her husband came out for her next in the face with which he listened.
He might certainly well be puzzled, in respect to his father-in-law
and Mrs. Verver, by her glance at their possible preference for a
concentrated evening. “But it isn’t--is it?” he asked--“as if they were
leaving each other?”

“Oh no; it isn’t as if they were leaving each other. They’re only
bringing to a close--without knowing when it may open again--a time that
has been, naturally, awfully interesting to them.” Yes, she could talk
so of their “time”--she was somehow sustained; she was sustained even to
affirm more intensely her present possession of her ground. “They have
their reasons--many things to think of; how can one tell? But there’s
always, also, the chance of his proposing to me that we shall have our
last hours together; I mean that he and I shall. He may wish to take
me off to dine with him somewhere alone--and to do it in memory of old
days. I mean,” the Princess went on, “the real old days; before my grand
husband was invented and, much more, before his grand wife was: the
wonderful times of his first great interest in what he has since done,
his first great plans and opportunities, discoveries and bargains. The
way we’ve sat together late, ever so late, in foreign restaurants, which
he used to like; the way that, in every city in Europe, we’ve stayed on
and on, with our elbows on the table and most of the lights put out, to
talk over things he had that day seen or heard of or made his offer for,
the things he had secured or refused or lost! There were places he took
me to--you wouldn’t believe!--for often he could only have left me with
servants. If he should carry me off with him to-night, for old sake’s
sake, to the Earl’s Court Exhibition, it will be a little--just a very,
very little--like our young adventures.” After which while Amerigo
watched her, and in fact quite because of it, she had an inspiration, to
which she presently yielded. If he was wondering what she would say
next she had found exactly the thing. “In that case he will leave you
Charlotte to take care of in our absence. You’ll have to carry her off
somewhere for your last evening; unless you may prefer to spend it with
her here. I shall then see that you dine, that you have everything,
quite beautifully. You’ll be able to do as you like.”

She couldn’t have been sure beforehand, and had really not been; but
the most immediate result of this speech was his letting her see that
he took it for no cheap extravagance either of irony or of oblivion.
Nothing in the world, of a truth, had ever been so sweet to her, as his
look of trying to be serious enough to make no mistake about it. She
troubled him--which hadn’t been at all her purpose; she mystified
him--which she couldn’t help and, comparatively, didn’t mind; then it
came over her that he had, after all, a simplicity, very considerable,
on which she had never dared to presume. It was a discovery--not like
the other discovery she had once made, but giving out a freshness; and
she recognised again in the light of it the number of the ideas of which
he thought her capable. They were all, apparently, queer for him, but
she had at least, with the lapse of the months, created the perception
that there might be something in them; whereby he stared there,
beautiful and sombre, at what she was at present providing him with.
There was something of his own in his mind, to which, she was sure, he
referred everything for a measure and a meaning; he had never let go
of it, from the evening, weeks before, when, in her room, after his
encounter with the Bloomsbury cup, she had planted it there by flinging
it at him, on the question of her father’s view of him, her determined
“Find out for yourself!” She had been aware, during the months, that he
had been trying to find out, and had been seeking, above all, to avoid
the appearance of any evasions of such a form of knowledge as might
reach him, with violence or with a penetration more insidious, from any
other source. Nothing, however, had reached him; nothing he could at
all conveniently reckon with had disengaged itself for him even from
the announcement, sufficiently sudden, of the final secession of their
companions. Charlotte was in pain, Charlotte was in torment, but he
himself had given her reason enough for that; and, in respect to the
rest of the whole matter of her obligation to follow her husband, that
personage and she, Maggie, had so shuffled away every link between
consequence and cause, that the intention remained, like some famous
poetic line in a dead language, subject to varieties of interpretation.
What renewed the obscurity was her strange image of their common offer
to him, her father’s and her own, of an opportunity to separate from
Mrs. Verver with the due amount of form--and all the more that he was,
in so pathetic a way, unable to treat himself to a quarrel with it on
the score of taste. Taste, in him, as a touchstone, was now all at sea;
for who could say but that one of her fifty ideas, or perhaps forty-nine
of them, wouldn’t be, exactly, that taste by itself, the taste he had
always conformed to, had no importance whatever? If meanwhile, at all
events, he felt her as serious, this made the greater reason for her
profiting by it as she perhaps might never be able to profit again. She
was invoking that reflection at the very moment he brought out, in
reply to her last words, a remark which, though perfectly relevant and
perfectly just, affected her at first as a high oddity. “They’re doing
the wisest thing, you know. For if they were ever to go--!” And he
looked down at her over his cigar.

If they were ever to go, in short, it was high time, with her father’s
age, Charlotte’s need of initiation, and the general magnitude of the
job of their getting settled and seasoned, their learning to “live into”
 their queer future--it was high time that they should take up their
courage. This was eminent sense, but it didn’t arrest the Princess, who,
the next moment, had found a form for her challenge. “But shan’t you
then so much as miss her a little? She’s wonderful and beautiful, and I
feel somehow as if she were dying. Not really, not physically,” Maggie
went on--“she’s so far, naturally, splendid as she is, from having done
with life. But dying for us--for you and me; and making us feel it by
the very fact of there being so much of her left.”

The Prince smoked hard a minute. “As you say, she’s splendid, but there
is--there always will be--much of her left. Only, as you also say, for
others.”

“And yet I think,” the Princess returned, “that it isn’t as if we had
wholly done with her. How can we not always think of her? It’s as if her
unhappiness had been necessary to us--as if we had needed her, at her
own cost, to build us up and start us.”

He took it in with consideration, but he met it with a lucid inquiry.
“Why do you speak of the unhappiness of your father’s wife?”

They exchanged a long look--the time that it took her to find her reply.
“Because not to--!”

“Well, not to--?”

“Would make me have to speak of him. And I can’t,” said Maggie, “speak
of him.”

“You ‘can’t’--?”

“I can’t.” She said it as for definite notice, not to be repeated.
“There are too many things,” she nevertheless added. “He’s too great.”

The Prince looked at his cigar-tip, and then as he put back the weed:
“Too great for whom?” Upon which as she hesitated, “Not, my dear, too
great for you,” he declared. “For me--oh, as much as you like.”

“Too great for me is what I mean. I know why I think it,” Maggie said.
“That’s enough.”

He looked at her yet again as if she but fanned his wonder; he was on
the very point, she judged, of asking her why she thought it. But her
own eyes maintained their warning, and at the end of a minute he had
uttered other words. “What’s of importance is that you’re his daughter.
That at least we’ve got. And I suppose that, if I may say nothing else,
I may say at least that I value it.”

“Oh yes, you may say that you value it. I myself make the most of it.”

This again he took in, letting it presently put forth for him a striking
connection. “She ought to have known you. That’s what’s present to me.
She ought to have understood you better.”

“Better than you did?”

“Yes,” he gravely maintained, “better than I did. And she didn’t really
know you at all. She doesn’t know you now.”

“Ah, yes she does!” said Maggie.

But he shook his head--he knew what he meant. “She not only doesn’t
understand you more than I, she understands you ever so much less.
Though even I--!”

“Well, even you?” Maggie pressed as he paused. “Even I, even I even
yet--!” Again he paused and the silence held them.

But Maggie at last broke it. “If Charlotte doesn’t understand me, it is
that I’ve prevented her. I’ve chosen to deceive her and to lie to her.”

The Prince kept his eyes on her. “I know what you’ve chosen to do. But
I’ve chosen to do the same.”

“Yes,” said Maggie after an instant--“my choice was made when I had
guessed yours. But you mean,” she asked, “that she understands YOU?”

“It presents small difficulty!”

“Are you so sure?” Maggie went on.

“Sure enough. But it doesn’t matter.” He waited an instant; then looking
up through the fumes of his smoke, “She’s stupid,” he abruptly opined.

“O--oh!” Maggie protested in a long wail.

It had made him in fact quickly change colour. “What I mean is that
she’s not, as you pronounce her, unhappy.” And he recovered, with this,
all his logic. “Why is she unhappy if she doesn’t know?”

“Doesn’t know--?” She tried to make his logic difficult.

“Doesn’t know that YOU know.”

It came from him in such a way that she was conscious, instantly, of
three or four things to answer. But what she said first was: “Do you
think that’s all it need take?” And before he could reply, “She knows,
she knows!” Maggie proclaimed.

“Well then, what?”

But she threw back her head, she turned impatiently away from him.
“Oh, I needn’t tell you! She knows enough. Besides,” she went on, “she
doesn’t believe us.”

It made the Prince stare a little. “Ah, she asks too much!” That drew,
however, from his wife another moan of objection, which determined in
him a judgment. “She won’t let you take her for unhappy.”

“Oh, I know better than any one else what she won’t let me take her
for!”

“Very well,” said Amerigo, “you’ll see.”

“I shall see wonders, I know. I’ve already seen them, and I’m
prepared for them.” Maggie recalled--she had memories enough. “It’s
terrible”--her memories prompted her to speak. “I see it’s ALWAYS
terrible for women.”

The Prince looked down in his gravity. “Everything’s terrible, cara, in
the heart of man. She’s making her life,” he said. “She’ll make it.”

His wife turned back upon him; she had wandered to a table, vaguely
setting objects straight. “A little by the way then too, while she’s
about it, she’s making ours.” At this he raised his eyes, which met her
own, and she held him while she delivered herself of some thing that had
been with her these last minutes.

“You spoke just now of Charlotte’s not having learned from you that
I ‘know.’ Am I to take from you then that you accept and recognise my
knowledge?”

He did the inquiry all the honours--visibly weighed its importance and
weighed his response. “You think I might have been showing you that a
little more handsomely?”

“It isn’t a question of any beauty,” said Maggie; “it’s only a question
of the quantity of truth.”

“Oh, the quantity of truth!” the Prince richly, though ambiguously,
murmured.

“That’s a thing by itself, yes. But there are also such things, all the
same, as questions of good faith.”

“Of course there are!” the Prince hastened to reply. After which he
brought up more slowly: “If ever a man, since the beginning of time,
acted in good faith!” But he dropped it, offering it simply for that.

For that then, when it had had time somewhat to settle, like some
handful of gold-dust thrown into the air--for that then Maggie showed
herself, as deeply and strangely taking it. “I see.” And she even wished
this form to be as complete as she could make it. “I see.”

The completeness, clearly, after an instant, had struck him as divine.
“Ah, my dear, my dear, my dear--!” It was all he could say.

She wasn’t talking, however, at large. “You’ve kept up for so long a
silence--!”

“Yes, yes, I know what I’ve kept up. But will you do,” he asked, “still
one thing more for me?”

It was as if, for an instant, with her new exposure, it had made her
turn pale. “Is there even one thing left?”

“Ah, my dear, my dear, my dear!”--it had pressed again in him the fine
spring of the unspeakable. There was nothing, however, that the Princess
herself couldn’t say. “I’ll do anything, if you’ll tell me what.”

“Then wait.” And his raised Italian hand, with its play of admonitory
fingers, had never made gesture more expressive. His voice itself
dropped to a tone--! “Wait,” he repeated. “Wait.”

She understood, but it was as if she wished to have it from him. “Till
they’ve been here, you mean?”

“Yes, till they’ve gone. Till they’re away.”

She kept it up. “Till they’ve left the country?” She had her eyes on him
for clearness; these were the conditions of a promise--so that he put
the promise, practically, into his response. “Till we’ve ceased to see
them--for as long as God may grant! Till we’re really alone.”

“Oh, if it’s only that--!” When she had drawn from him thus then, as she
could feel, the thick breath of the definite--which was the intimate,
the immediate, the familiar, as she hadn’t had them for so long--she
turned away again, she put her hand on the knob of the door. But her
hand rested at first without a grasp; she had another effort to make,
the effort of leaving him, of which everything that had just passed
between them, his presence, irresistible, overcharged with it, doubled
the difficulty. There was something--she couldn’t have told what; it was
as if, shut in together, they had come too far--too far for where they
were; so that the mere act of her quitting him was like the attempt to
recover the lost and gone. She had taken in with her something that,
within the ten minutes, and especially within the last three or four,
had slipped away from her--which it was vain now, wasn’t it? to try to
appear to clutch or to pick up. That consciousness in fact had a pang,
and she balanced, intensely, for the lingering moment, almost with a
terror of her endless power of surrender. He had only to press, really,
for her to yield inch by inch, and she fairly knew at present, while she
looked at him through her cloud, that the confession of this precious
secret sat there for him to pluck. The sensation, for the few seconds,
was extraordinary; her weakness, her desire, so long as she was yet not
saving herself, flowered in her face like a light or a darkness. She
sought for some word that would cover this up; she reverted to the
question of tea, speaking as if they shouldn’t meet sooner. “Then about
five. I count on you.”

On him too, however, something had descended; as to which this exactly
gave him his chance. “Ah, but I shall see you--! No?” he said, coming
nearer.

She had, with her hand still on the knob, her back against the door, so
that her retreat, under his approach must be less than a step, and yet
she couldn’t for her life, with the other hand, have pushed him away.
He was so near now that she could touch him, taste him, smell him,
kiss him, hold him; he almost pressed upon her, and the warmth of his
face--frowning, smiling, she mightn’t know which; only beautiful and
strange--was bent upon her with the largeness with which objects loom in
dreams. She closed her eyes to it, and so, the next instant, against her
purpose, she had put out her hand, which had met his own and which he
held. Then it was that, from behind her closed eyes, the right word
came. “Wait!” It was the word of his own distress and entreaty, the word
for both of them, all they had left, their plank now on the great sea.
Their hands were locked, and thus she said it again. “Wait. Wait.” She
kept her eyes shut, but her hand, she knew, helped her meaning--which
after a minute she was aware his own had absorbed. He let her go--he
turned away with this message, and when she saw him again his back was
presented, as he had left her, and his face staring out of the window.
She had saved herself and she got off.



                            XLII

Later on, in the afternoon, before the others arrived, the form of their
reunion was at least remarkable: they might, in their great eastward
drawing-room, have been comparing notes or nerves in apprehension of
some stiff official visit. Maggie’s mind, in its restlessness, even
played a little with the prospect; the high cool room, with its
afternoon shade, with its old tapestries uncovered, with the perfect
polish of its wide floor reflecting the bowls of gathered flowers and
the silver and linen of the prepared tea-table, drew from her a remark
in which this whole effect was mirrored, as well as something else
in the Prince’s movement while he slowly paced and turned. “We’re
distinctly bourgeois!” she a trifle grimly threw off, as an echo of
their old community; though to a spectator sufficiently detached they
might have been quite the privileged pair they were reputed, granted
only they were taken as awaiting the visit of Royalty. They might have
been ready, on the word passed up in advance, to repair together to the
foot of the staircase--the Prince somewhat in front, advancing indeed to
the open doors and even going down, for all his princedom, to meet, on
the stopping of the chariot, the august emergence. The time was stale,
it was to be admitted, for incidents of magnitude; the September hush
was in full possession, at the end of the dull day, and a couple of the
long windows stood open to the balcony that overhung the desolation--
the balcony from which Maggie, in the springtime, had seen Amerigo and
Charlotte look down together at the hour of her return from the Regent’s
Park, near by, with her father, the Principino and Miss Bogle. Amerigo
now again, in his punctual impatience, went out a couple of times and
stood there; after which, as to report that nothing was in sight, he
returned to the room with frankly nothing else to do. The Princess
pretended to read; he looked at her as he passed; there hovered in
her own sense the thought of other occasions when she had cheated
appearances of agitation with a book. At last she felt him standing
before her, and then she raised her eyes.

“Do you remember how, this morning, when you told me of this event, I
asked you if there were anything particular you wished me to do? You
spoke of my being at home, but that was a matter of course. You spoke of
something else,” he went on, while she sat with her book on her knee and
her raised eyes; “something that makes me almost wish it may happen.
You spoke,” he said, “of the possibility of my seeing her alone. Do you
know, if that comes,” he asked, “the use I shall make of it?” And then
as she waited: “The use is all before me.”

“Ah, it’s your own business now!” said his wife. But it had made her
rise.

“I shall make it my own,” he answered. “I shall tell her I lied to her.”

“Ah no!” she returned.

“And I shall tell her you did.”

She shook her head again. “Oh, still less!”

With which therefore they stood at difference, he with his head erect
and his happy idea perched, in its eagerness, on his crest. “And how
then is she to know?”

“She isn’t to know.”

“She’s only still to think you don’t--?”

“And therefore that I’m always a fool? She may think,” said Maggie,
“what she likes.”

“Think it without my protest--?”

The Princess made a movement. “What business is it of yours?”

“Isn’t it my right to correct her--?”

Maggie let his question ring--ring long enough for him to hear it
himself; only then she took it up. “‘Correct’ her?”--and it was her own
now that really rang. “Aren’t you rather forgetting who she is?” After
which, while he quite stared for it, as it was the very first clear
majesty he had known her to use, she flung down her book and raised a
warning hand. “The carriage. Come!”

The “Come!” had matched, for lucid firmness, the rest of her speech,
and, when they were below, in the hall, there was a “Go!” for him,
through the open doors and between the ranged servants, that matched
even that. He received Royalty, bareheaded, therefore, in the persons of
Mr. and Mrs. Verver, as it alighted on the pavement, and Maggie was at
the threshold to welcome it to her house. Later on, upstairs again, she
even herself felt still more the force of the limit of which she
had just reminded him; at tea, in Charlotte’s affirmed presence--as
Charlotte affirmed it--she drew a long breath of richer relief. It was
the strangest, once more, of all impressions; but what she most felt,
for the half-hour, was that Mr. and Mrs. Verver were making the occasion
easy. They were somehow conjoined in it, conjoined for a present effect
as Maggie had absolutely never yet seen them; and there occurred, before
long, a moment in which Amerigo’s look met her own in recognitions that
he couldn’t suppress. The question of the amount of correction to which
Charlotte had laid herself open rose and hovered, for the instant, only
to sink, conspicuously, by its own weight; so high a pitch she seemed
to give to the unconsciousness of questions, so resplendent a show of
serenity she succeeded in making. The shade of the official, in her
beauty and security, never for a moment dropped; it was a cool, high
refuge, like the deep, arched recess of some coloured and gilded image,
in which she sat and smiled and waited, drank her tea, referred to her
husband and remembered her mission. Her mission had quite taken form--it
was but another name for the interest of her great opportunity--that of
representing the arts and the graces to a people languishing, afar
off, in ignorance. Maggie had sufficiently intimated to the Prince,
ten minutes before, that she needed no showing as to what their friend
wouldn’t consent to be taken for; but the difficulty now indeed was to
choose, for explicit tribute of admiration, between the varieties of her
nobler aspects. She carried it off, to put the matter coarsely, with a
taste and a discretion that held our young woman’s attention, for the
first quarter-of-an-hour, to the very point of diverting it from the
attitude of her overshadowed, her almost superseded companion. But Adam
Verver profited indeed at this time, even with his daughter, by his so
marked peculiarity of seeming on no occasion to have an attitude; and so
long as they were in the room together she felt him still simply weave
his web and play out his long fine cord, knew herself in presence of
this tacit process very much as she had known herself at Fawns. He had
a way, the dear man, wherever he was, of moving about the room,
noiselessly, to see what it might contain; and his manner of now
resorting to this habit, acquainted as he already was with the objects
in view, expressed with a certain sharpness the intention of leaving his
wife to her devices. It did even more than this; it signified, to the
apprehension of the Princess, from the moment she more directly took
thought of him, almost a special view of these devices, as actually
exhibited in their rarity, together with an independent, a settled
appreciation of their general handsome adequacy, which scarcely required
the accompaniment of his faint contemplative hum.

Charlotte throned, as who should say, between her hostess and her host,
the whole scene having crystallised, as soon as she took her place, to
the right quiet lustre; the harmony was not less sustained for being
superficial, and the only approach to a break in it was while Amerigo
remained standing long enough for his father-in-law, vaguely wondering,
to appeal to him, invite or address him, and then, in default of any
such word, selected for presentation to the other visitor a plate of
petits fours. Maggie watched her husband--if it now could be called
watching--offer this refreshment; she noted the consummate way--for
“consummate” was the term she privately applied--in which Charlotte
cleared her acceptance, cleared her impersonal smile, of any betrayal,
any slightest value, of consciousness; and then felt the slow surge of a
vision that, at the end of another minute or two, had floated her
across the room to where her father stood looking at a picture, an early
Florentine sacred subject, that he had given her on her marriage. He
might have been, in silence, taking his last leave of it; it was a
work for which he entertained, she knew, an unqualified esteem. The
tenderness represented for her by his sacrifice of such a treasure had
become, to her sense, a part of the whole infusion, of the immortal
expression; the beauty of his sentiment looked out at her, always, from
the beauty of the rest, as if the frame made positively a window for his
spiritual face: she might have said to herself, at this moment, that in
leaving the thing behind him, held as in her clasping arms, he was doing
the most possible toward leaving her a part of his palpable self.
She put her hand over his shoulder, and their eyes were held again,
together, by the abiding felicity; they smiled in emulation, vaguely,
as if speech failed them through their having passed too far; she would
have begun to wonder the next minute if it were reserved to them, for
the last stage, to find their contact, like that of old friends reunited
too much on the theory of the unchanged, subject to shy lapses.

“It’s all right, eh?”

“Oh, my dear--rather!”

He had applied the question to the great fact of the picture, as she
had spoken for the picture in reply, but it was as if their words for an
instant afterwards symbolised another truth, so that they looked about
at everything else to give them this extension. She had passed her arm
into his, and the other objects in the room, the other pictures, the
sofas, the chairs, the tables, the cabinets, the “important” pieces,
supreme in their way, stood out, round them, consciously, for
recognition and applause. Their eyes moved together from piece to piece,
taking in the whole nobleness--quite as if for him to measure the wisdom
of old ideas. The two noble persons seated, in conversation, at tea,
fell thus into the splendid effect and the general harmony: Mrs. Verver
and the Prince fairly “placed” themselves, however unwittingly, as high
expressions of the kind of human furniture required, esthetically, by
such a scene. The fusion of their presence with the decorative elements,
their contribution to the triumph of selection, was complete and
admirable; though, to a lingering view, a view more penetrating than
the occasion really demanded, they also might have figured as concrete
attestations of a rare power of purchase. There was much indeed in
the tone in which Adam Verver spoke again, and who shall say where his
thought stopped? “Le compte y est. You’ve got some good things.”

Maggie met it afresh--“Ah, don’t they look well?” Their companions, at
the sound of this, gave them, in a spacious intermission of slow talk,
