the open cabin door. Nothing stirred there.

At last, with a slight shiver, she opened her saddle bags and drew out
the dress she meant to wear--a dingy, earth-colored thing of gingham.

Deep in the thicket she undressed, folded her fine linen and silken
stockings, laid them away in the saddle bags together with waist and
skirt, field glasses, gauntlets, and whip, and the map and papers, which
latter, while affording no information to the enemy, would certainly
serve to convict her.

Dressed now in the scanty, colorless clothing of a "poor white" of the
pine woods, limbs and body tanned with walnut, her slender feet rubbed
in dust and then thrust stockingless into shapeless shoes, she let down
the dark, lustrous mass of her hair, braided it, tied it with faded
ribbon, rubbed her hands in wood mold and crushed green leaves over them
till they seemed all stained and marred with toil. Then she gathered an
armful of splinter wood.

Now ready, she tethered her horse, leaving him bitted and saddled;
spread out his sack of feed, turned and looked once more at the cabin,
then walked noiselessly to the clearing's edge, carrying her aromatic
splinters.

Underfoot, as she crossed it, the charred grass crumbled to powder;
three wild doves flickered up into flight, making a soft clatter and
displaying the four white feathers. A quail called from the bean patch.

The heat was intense in the sun; perspiration streaked her features; her
tender feet burned; the cabin seemed a long way off, a wavering blot
through the dancing heat devils playing above the fire-scorched open.

Head bent, she moved on in the shiftless, hopeless fashion of the sort
of humanity she was representing, furtively taking her bearings and
making such sidelong observations as she dared. To know the shortest way
back to her horse might mean life to her. She understood that. Also she
fully realized that she might at that very instant be under hostile
observation. In her easily excited imagination, all around her the
forest seemed to conceal a hundred malevolent eyes. She shivered
slightly, wiped the perspiration from her brow with one small bare fist,
and plodded on, clutching her lightwood to her rounded breast.

And now at last she was nearing the open cabin door; and she must not
hesitate, must show no suspicion. So she went in, dragging her
clumsily-shod feet.

A very young man in the uniform of a Confederate cavalry officer was
seated inside before the empty fireplace of baked clay. He had a bad
scar on his temple. She looked at him, simulating dull surprise; he rose
and greeted her gracefully.

"Howdy," she murmured in response, still staring.

"Is this your house?" he asked.

"Suh?" blankly.

"Is this your house?"

"I reckon," she nodded. "How come you-all in my house?"

He replied with another question:

"What were you doing in the woods?"

"Lightwood," she answered briefly, stacking the fragrant splinters on
the table.

"Do you live here all alone?"

"Reckon I'm alone when I live heah," sullenly.

"What is your name?" He had a trick of coloring easily.

"What may be yoh name, suh?" she retorted with a little flash of
Southern spirit, never entirely quenched even in such as she seemed to
be.

Genuine surprise brought the red back into his face and made it, worn as
it was, seem almost handsome. The curious idea came to her that she had
seen him before somewhere. At the same moment speech seemed to tremble
on his lips; he hesitated, looked at her with a new and sudden keenness,
and stood looking.

"I expected to meet somebody here," he said at length.

She did not seem to comprehend.

"I expected to meet a woman here."

"Who? Me?" incredulously.

He looked her over carefully; looked at her dusty bare ankles, at her
walnut-smeared face and throat. She seemed so small, so
round-shouldered--so different from what he had expected. They had said
that the woman he must find was pretty.

"Was yuh-all fixin' to meet up with me?" she repeated with a bold
laugh.

"I--don't know," he said. "By the Eternal, I don't know, ma'am. But I'm
going to find out in right smart time. Did you ever hear anybody speak
Latin?"

"Suh?" blankly; and the audacity faded.

"Latin," he repeated, a trifle discomfited. "For instance, 'sic itur.'
Do you know what 'sic itur' means?"

"Sick--what, suh?"

"'Sic itur!' Oh, Lord, she is what she looks like!" he exclaimed in
frank despair. He walked to the door, wheeled suddenly, came back and
confronted her.

"Either, ma'am, you are the most consummate actress in this war drama,
or you don't know what I'm saying, and you think me crazy.... And now
I'll ask you once for all: Is this the road?"

The Special Messenger looked him full in the eyes; then, as by magic,
the loveliest of smiles transfigured the dull, blank features; her round
shoulders, pendulous arms, slouching pose, melted into superb symmetry,
quickening with grace and youth as she straightened up and faced him,
erect, supple, laughing, adorable.

"Sic itur--ad Astra," she said demurely, and offered him her hand.
"Continue," she added.

He neither stirred nor spoke; a deep flush mounted to the roots of his
short, curly hair. She smiled encouragement, thinking him young and
embarrassed, and a trifle chagrined.

"Continue the Latin formula," she nodded, laughing; "what follows, if
you please----"

"Good God!" he broke out hoarsely.

And suddenly she knew there was nothing to follow except death--his or
hers--realized she made an awful mistake--divined in one dreadful
instant the unsuspected counter-mine beneath her very feet--cried out as
she struck him full in the face with clenched fist, sprang back,
whipping the revolver from her ragged bodice, dark eyes ablaze.

"Now," she panted, "hands high--and turn your back! Quickly!"

He stood still, very pale, one sunburned hand covering the cheek which
she had struck. There was blood on it. He heard her breathless voice,
warning him to obey, but he only took his hand from his face, looked at
the blood on palm and finger, then turned his hopeless eyes on her.

"Too late," he said heavily. "But--I'd rather be you than I.... Look out
of that window, Messenger!"

"Put up your hands!"

"No."

"Will you hold up your hands!"

"No, Messenger.... And I--didn't--know it was you when I came here.
It's--it's a dirty business--for an officer." He sank down on the wooden
chair, resting his head between both hands. A single drop of blood fell
brightly from his cut cheek.

The Special Messenger stole a swift, sidelong glance toward the window,
hesitated, and, always watching him, slid along the wall toward the
door, menacing him at every step with leveled revolver. Then, at the
door, she cast one rapid glance at the open field behind her and around.
A thrill of horror stiffened her. The entire circle of the burned
clearing was ringed with the gray pickets of rebel cavalry.

The distant men sat motionless on their horses, carbine on thigh. Here
and there a distant horse tossed his beautiful head, or perhaps some
hat-brim fluttered. There was no other movement, not one sound.

Crouching to pass the windows beneath the sills she crept, heedless of
her prisoner, to the rear door. That avenue to the near clustering woods
was closed, too; she saw the glitter of carbines above the laurel.

"Special Messenger?" She turned toward him, pale as a ghost. "I reckon
we've got you."

"Yes," she said.

There was another chair by the table--the only other one. She seated
herself, shaking all over, laid her revolver on the table, stared at the
weapon, pushed it from her with a nervous shudder, and, ashy of lip and
cheek, looked at the man she had struck.

"Will they--hang me?"

"I reckon, ma'am. They hung the other one--the man you took me for."

"Will there be a--trial?"

"Drumhead.... They've been after you a long, long while."

"Then--what are you waiting for?"

He was silent.

She found it hard to control the nervous tremor of her limbs and lips.
The dryness in her throat made speech difficult.

"Then--if there is no chance----"

He bent forward swiftly and snatched her revolver from the table as her
small hand fell heavily upon the spot where the weapon had rested.

"Would you do that?" he said in a low voice.

The desperate young eyes answered him. And, after a throbbing silence:
"Won't you let me?" she asked. "It is indecent to h-hang
a--woman--before--men----"

He did not answer.

"Please--please--" she whispered, "give it back to me--if you are
a--soldier.... You can go to the door and call them.... Nobody will
know.... You can turn your back.... It will only take a second!"

A big blue-bottle fly came blundering into the room and filled the
silence with its noise. Years ago the big blue flies sometimes came into
the quiet schoolroom; and how everybody giggled when the taller Miss
Poucher, bristling from her prunella shoes to her stiff side-curls,
charged indignantly upon the buzzing intruder.

Dry--eyed, dry--lipped, the Messenger straightened up, quivering, and
drew a quick, sharp breath; then her head fell forward, and, resting
inert upon the table, she buried her face in her arms. The most
dangerous spy in the Union service--the secret agent who had worked more
evil to the Confederacy than any single Union army corps--the coolest,
most resourceful, most trusted messenger on either side as long as the
struggle lasted--caught at last.

The man, young, Southern, and a gentleman's son, sat staring at her. He
had driven his finger-nails deep into his palms, bitten his underlip
till it was raw.

"Messenger!"

She made no response.

"Are you afraid?"

Her head, prone in her arms, motioned dull negation. It was a lie and he
knew it. He looked at the slender column of the neck--stained to a
delicate amber--at the nape; and he thought of the rope and the knot
under the left ear.

"Messenger," he said once more. "I did not know it was you I was to
meet. Look at me, in God's name!"

She opened her eyes on him, then raised her head.

"Do you know me now?" he asked.

"No."

"Look!"

He touched the scar on his forehead; but there was no recognition in her
eyes.

"Look, I tell you!" he repeated, almost fiercely.

She said wearily: "I have seen so many men--so many men.... I can't
remember you."

"And I have seen many women, Messenger; but I have never forgotten
you--or what you did--or what you did----"

"I?"

"You.... And from that night I have lived only to find you again.
And--oh, God! To find you here! My Messenger! My little Messenger!"

"Who are you?" she whispered, leaning forward on the table, dark eyes
dilating with hope.

He sat heavily for a while, head bowed as though stunned to silence;
then slowly the white misery returned to his face and he looked up.

"So--after all--you have forgotten. And my romance is dead."

She did not answer, intent now on every word, every shade of his
expression. And, as she looked, through the numbness of her desperation,
hope stirred again, stealthily.

"Are you a friend?" Her voice scarcely sounded at all.

"Friends die for each other," he said. "Do you expect that of me?"

The silence between them became terrible; and at last he broke it with a
bitter laugh:

"You once turned a boy's life to romance--riding through it--out of
it--leaving scars on his brow and heart--and on his lips the touch of
your own. And on his face your tears. Look at me once more!"

Her breath came quicker; far within her somewhere memory awoke, groping
blindly for light.

"Three days we followed you," he said. "On the Pennsylvania line we
cornered you; but you changed garb and shape and speech, almost under
our eyes--as a chameleon changes color, matching the leaf it hides
on.... I halted at that squatter's house--sure of you at last--and the
pretty squatter's daughter cooked for us while we hunted you in the
hills--and when I returned she gave me her bed to sleep on----"

Her hand caught at her throat and she half rose, staring at him.

"Her own bed to sleep on," he repeated. "And I had been three days
in the saddle; and I ate what she set before me, and slept on her
bed--fell asleep--only a tired boy, not a soldier any longer....
And awoke to meet your startled eyes--to meet the blow from your
revolver butt that made this scar--to fall back bewildered for a
moment--half-stunned--Messenger! Do you know me now?"

"Yes," she said.

They looked breathlessly at one another; suddenly a hot blush covered
her neck and face; and his eyes flashed triumph.

"You have not forgotten!" he cried.

And there, on the very edge of death itself, the bright shame glowed and
glowed in her cheeks, and her distressed eyes fell before his.

"You kissed me," he said, looking at her.

"I--I thought I had--killed you--" she stammered.

"And you kissed me on the lips.... In that moment of peril you waited to
do that. Your tears fell on my face. I felt them. And I tell you that,
even had I been lying there dead instead of partly stunned, I would have
known what you did to me after you struck me down."

Her head sank lower; the color ran riot from throat to brow.

He spoke again, quietly, yet a strange undertone of exaltation thrilled
his voice and transfigured the thin, war-worn features she had
forgotten, so that, as she lifted her eyes to him again, the same boy
looked back at her from the mist of the long dead years.

"Messenger," he said, "I have never forgotten. And now it is too late to
forget your tears on my face--the touch of your lips on mine. I would
not if I could.... It was worth living for--dying for.... Once--I
hoped--some day--after this--all this trouble ended--my romance might
come--true----"

The boy choked, then:

"I came here under orders to take a woman spy whose password was the key
to a Latin phrase. But until you stood straight in your rags and smiled
at me, I did not know it was you--I did not know I was to take the
Special Messenger! Do you believe me?"

"Yes."

The boy colored painfully. Then a queer, pallid change came over his
face; he rose, bent over her where she rested heavily on the table:

"Little Messenger," he said, "I am in your debt for two blows and a
kiss."

She lifted a dazed face to meet his gaze; he trembled, leaned down, and
kissed her on the mouth.

Then in one bound he was at the door, signaling his troopers with drawn
sabre--as once, long ago, she had seen him signal them in the Northern
woods.

And, through the window, she saw the scattered cavalry forming column at
a gallop, obeying every sabre signal, trotting forward, wheeling fours
right--and then--and then! the gray column swung into the western forest
at a canter, and was gone!

The boy leaning in the doorway looked back at her over his shoulder and
sheathed his sabre. There was not a vestige of color left in his face.

"Go!" he said hoarsely.

"What?" she faltered.

"Go--go, in God's name! There's a door there! Can't you see it?"

                 *       *       *       *       *

She had been gone for a full hour when at last he turned again. A bit of
faded ribbon from her hair lay on the table. It was tied in a true
lover's knot.

He walked over, looked at it, drew it through his buttonhole and went
slowly back to the door again. For a long while he stood there,
vague-eyed, silent. It was nearly sunset when once more he drew his
sabre, examined it carefully, bent it over one knee, and snapped the
blade in two.

Then, with a last look at the sky, and standing very erect, he closed
the door, set his back firmly against it, drew his revolver, and looked
curiously into the muzzle.

A moment later the racket of the shot echoed through the deserted house.




V

RED FERRY


When Private Allen of Kay's Cavalry deserted with headquarters' dispatch
pouch, and headed straight for Dixie, there was a great deal of
consternation and excitement on the north bank of the river, and a
considerable amount of headlong riding. But on the tenth day he slipped
through the cordon, got into the woods, and was making for the river
when a patrol shot at him near Gopher Creek, but lost him in the
impenetrable cypress swamp beyond.

However, the pursuit was pushed forward to the very edge of the enemy's
country; Kay's troopers patrolled the north bank of the river and
watched every road and ford; east and west Ripley's and Haynes's
brigades formed impassable curtains.

Somewhere in this vast corral lay hidden a desperate, starving man; and
it was only a question of time before the hunted creature broke cover
for the water.

That a trooper had deserted with arms and equipment was generally known;
but that, in his nocturnal flight, he had also taken vitally important
papers was known at first only to Kay and later to the Special
Messenger, who was sent to him post-haste from corps headquarters when
the fugitive headed for the river.

Now, the south bank of the stream being in the enemy's territory, Kay
had not ventured to station patrols above the clay banks opposite, lest
rumor of invasion bring Stuart's riders to complicate a man chase and
the man escape in the confusion.

And he explained this to the Special Messenger at their first
conference.

"It ought to be guarded," insisted the Messenger tranquilly. "There are
three good fords and a ferry open to him."

"I hold the fords on this side," argued Kay; "the ferryboat lies in the
eel-grass on the south shore."

"Stuart's riders might cross if they heard of this trouble, sir!"

"And if they see Union troops on the south bank they'll cross, sure pop.
It won't do, Messenger. If that fellow attempts the fords we'll catch
him, sure; if he swims we may get him in the water. The Lord knows I
want him badly, but I dare not invite trouble by placing vedettes across
the stream.... There's a ferryman over there I'm worried about, too.
He'd probably come across if Allen hailed him from the woods.... And
Allen was thick with him. They used to fish together. Nobody knows what
they hatched out between them. It worries me, I can tell you--that
ferry."

The Messenger walked to the tent door and looked thoughtfully at the
woods around her. The colonel rose from his camp stool and followed her,
muttering:

"I might as well try to catch a weasel in a wall, or a red horse in the
mud; and how to go about it I don't know." With set jaws and an angry
spot glowing in his gaunt cheeks, he stared wickedly around him and then
at the Messenger. "You do miracles, they say. Can't you do one now?"

"I don't know, sir. Who is this deserter?"

"Roy Allen--a sullen, unwilling dog--always malingering. He's spent half
the time in the guardhouse, half in the hospital, since he arrived with
the recruits. Somebody got an idea that he'd been hit by the sun, but
it's all bosh. He's a bad one--that's all. Can you help me out?"

The Messenger nodded.

"You say he's fond of fishing?"

"Crazy about it. He was often detailed to keep us in food when rations
ran low. Then the catfish made us sick, so I stopped his fishing. Then
he took French leave."

"I want two troopers this evening, Colonel. May I have them?" she asked
thoughtfully. "I'm going to keep house at Red Ferry for a while."

"All right, ma'am. Look out for him; he's a bad one."

But the Messenger shook her head, smiling.

At ten o'clock that night the Special Messenger, mounted astride and
followed by two cavalrymen with carbines, rode down through the river
mist to Bushy Ford.

Daintily her handsome horse set foot in the water, hesitated, bent his
long, velvety neck, sniffed, and finally drank; then, satisfied, stepped
quietly forward, hock-deep, in the swirling, yellow flood.

"Foller them stakes, Miss," cautioned the older trooper; "I sot 'em
m'self, I did."

"Thank you. Keep close to me, Connor. I've crossed here before it was
staked."

"Sho!" exclaimed Connor under his breath; "she do beat 'em all!"

Twice, having no light but the foggy stars, they missed the stakes and
her horse had to swim, but they managed to flounder safely back to the
ford each time; and after a little while her mount rose, straining
through the red mud of the shore, struggled, scrambled madly, and drew
out, dripping.

Up a slippery, crooked ascent they rode, out into a field of uncut corn
above, then, spurring, swung at a canter eastward along the river.

There was a dim light in the ferry house; a lubberly, fat man ran to the
open door as they drew bridle before it. When the fat man saw the blue
troopers he backed hastily away from the sill and the Messenger
dismounted and followed him into the house, heavy revolver swinging in
her gloved hand.

"What'n hell y'goin' to do to me?" he began to whimper; "I ain't done
nothin'"; but an excess of fright strangled him, and he continued to
back away from her until he landed flat against the opposite wall. She
followed and halted before him, cocking her weapon, with a terrible
frown. She said solemnly:

"I want you to answer me one or two questions, and if you lie to me it
will be the last time. Do you understand?"

He nodded and moistened his thick lips, gulping.

"Then you are the ferryman, Snuyder, are you not?"

He nodded, utterly incapable of speech. She went on, gloomily:

"You used to fish sometimes with a Yankee recruit named Allen--Roy
Allen?"

"Ye-s'm," he sniveled. "There's my fish-pole an' his'n layin' onto the
roof----"

"How did he hail you when he wanted you to come across to take him
fishing?"

"He jest come down to the shore an' hollered twicet----"

She bent closer, scanning his dilated eyes; speech died on his lips.

"How did he call to you at night?"

"He ain't never called me at night--so help me----"

"No; but in case he ever wished to fish at night?"

The man began to stammer and protest, but she covered him suddenly, and
her dark eyes struck fire.

"What signal?" she asked with a menacing ring in her voice. "Quick!"

"Cock-o'-the-pines!... It didn't mean nothin'," gasped the man; ... "It
was jest private--between fishin' friends----"

"Go on!"

"Yes'm.... If I heard a cock-o'-the-pines squeal I was to squeal back,
an' then he was to holler--jest friendly--'Hallo-oo! How's fishin'?'
That's all, ma'am----"

"And you were to cross?"

"Yes'm--jest friendly like. Him an' me was fond o' fishin'----"

"I see. Sit down and don't move. Nobody is going to hurt you."

She went to the door, leisurely uncocking her revolver and pushing it
through her belt.

"Oh, Connor," she called carelessly, "please mount my friend Mr. Snuyder
on my horse, take him across the ford, and detain him as my guest at
headquarters until I return. Wait a second; I'm going to keep my
saddlebags with me."

And a few minutes later, as the troopers rode away in the mist with
their prisoner, her gentle voice followed them:

"Don't be rough with him, Connor. Say to the colonel that there is no
harm in him at all, but keep him in sight until I return; and don't
let him go fishing!"

                 *       *       *       *       *

She began housekeeping at sunrise by taking a daring bath in the stream,
then, dressing, she made careful inventory of the contents of the house
and a cautious survey of the immediate environment.

The premises, so unexpectedly and unwillingly abandoned by its late
obese tenant, harbored, besides herself, only one living creature--a fat
kitten.

The ferry house stood above the dangerous south bank of the river in a
grove of oaks, surrounded for miles by open country.

A flight of rickety, wooden stairs pitched downward from the edge of the
grassy bank to a wharf at the water's edge--the mere skeleton of a wharf
now, outlined only by decaying stringpieces. But here the patched-up
punt was moored; and above it, nailed to a dead tree, the sign with its
huge lettering still remained:

                         RED FERRY
                        HOLLER TWICE

sufficiently distinct to be deciphered from the opposite shore. Sooner
or later the fugitive would have to come to the river. Probably the
cavalry would catch him at one of the fords, or some rifleman might
shoot him swimming. But, if he did not know the fords, and could not
swim, there was only one ferry for him; east, west, and north he had
long since been walled in. The chances were that some night a
cock-o'-the-pines would squeal from the woods across the river, and then
she knew what to do.

During those broiling days of waiting she had leisure enough. Seated
outside her shanty, in the shade of the trees, where she was able to
keep watch both ways--south for her own safety's sake, north for the
doomed man--she occupied herself with mending stockings and underwear,
raising her eyes at intervals to sweep the landscape.

Nobody came into that heated desolation; neither voice nor gunshot
echoed far or near. Day after day the foliage of the trees spread
motionless under cloudless skies; day after day the oily river slipped
between red mud banks in heated silence. In sky, on earth, nothing
stirred except, at intervals, some buzzard turning, high in the blinding
blue; below, all was deathly motionless, save when a clotted cake of red
clay let go, sliding greasily into the current. At dawn the sun struck
the half-stunned world insensible once more; no birds stirred even at
sunset; all the little creatures of the field seemed dead; her kitten
panted in its slumbers.

Every night the river fog shrouded the land, wetting the parched leaves;
dew drummed on the rotting porch like the steady patter of
picket-firing; the widow bird's distracted mourning filled the silence;
the kitten crept to its food, ate indifferently, then, settling on the
Messenger's knees, stared, round-eyed, at the dark. But always at dawn
the sun burned off the mist, rising in stupefying splendor; the oily
river glided on; not a leaf moved, not a creature. And the kitten slept
on the porch, heedless of inviting grass stems whisked for her and the
ball of silk rolled past her in temptation.

Half lying there, propped against a tree trunk in the heated shade,
cotton bodice open, sleeves rolled to the shoulders, the Special
Messenger mended her linen with languid fingers. Perspiration powdered
her silky skin from brow to breast, from finger to elbow, shimmering
like dew when she moved. Her dark hair fell, unbound; glossy tendrils of
it curled on her shoulders, framing a face in which nothing as yet had
extinguished the soft loveliness of youth.

At times she talked to the kitten under her breath; sometimes hummed an
old song. Memories kept her busy, too, at moments quenching the
brightness of her eyes, at moments twitching the edges of her vivid lips
till the dreamy smile transfigured her.

But always quietly alert, her eyes scanned land and river, the bank
opposite, the open fields behind her. Once, certain of a second's
safety, she relaxed with a sigh, stretching out full length on the
grass; and, under the edge of her cotton skirt, the metal of a revolver
glimmered for an instant, strapped in its holster below her right knee.

The evening of the fourth day was cooler; the kitten hoisted its tail
for the first time in their acquaintance, and betrayed a feeble interest
in the flight of a white dusk-moth that came hovering around the porch
vines.

"Pussy," said the Messenger, "there's bacon in that well pit; I am going
to make a fire and fry some."

The kitten mewed faintly.

"I thought you'd approve, dear. Cold food is bad in hot weather; and
we'll fry a little cornmeal, too. Shall we?"

The kitten on its small, uncertain legs followed her into one of the
only two rooms. The fat tenant of the hovel had left some lightwood and
kindling, and pots and pans necessary for such an existence as he led on
earth.

The Messenger twisted up her hair and pinned it; then culinary rites
began, the kitten breaking into a thin purring when an odor of bacon
filled the air.

"Poor little thing!" murmured the Messenger, going to the door for a
brief cautionary survey. And, coming back, she lifted the fry pan and
helped the kitten first.

They were still eating when the sun set and the sudden Southern darkness
fell over woods and fields and river. A splinter of lightwood flared
aromatically in an old tin candlestick; by its smoky, wavering radiance
she heated some well water, cleaned the tin plates, scoured pan and
kettle, and set them in their humble places again.

Then, cleansing her hands daintily, she dried them, and picked up her
sewing.

For her, night was the danger time; she could not avoid, by flight
across the river, the approach of any enemy from the south; and for an
enemy to discover her sitting there in darkness, with lightwood in the
house, was to invite suspicion. Yet her only hope, if surprised, was to
play her part as keeper of Red Ferry.

So she sat mending, sensitive ears on the alert, breathing quietly in
the refreshing coolness that at last had come after so many nights of
dreadful heat.

The kitten, too, enjoyed it, patting with tentative velvet paw the skein
of silk dangling near the floor.

But it was a very little kitten, and a very lonely one, and presently it
asked, plaintively, to be taken up. So the Messenger lifted the mite of
fluffy fur and installed it among the linen on the table, where it went
to sleep purring.

Outside the open door the dew drummed loudly; moths came in clouds,
hovering like snowflakes about the doorway; somewhere in the woods a
tiger owl yelped.

About midnight, lying on her sack of husks, close to the borderland of
sleep, far away in the darkness she heard a shot.

In one bound she was at the door, buttoning her waist, and listening.
And still listening, she lighted a pine splinter, raised her cotton
skirt, and adjusted the revolver, strapping the holster tighter above
and below her right knee.

The pulsing seconds passed; far above the northern river bank a light
sparkled through the haze, then swung aloft; and she drew paper and
pencil from her pocket, and wrote down what the torch was saying:

"Shot fired at Muddy Ford. Look out along the river."

And even as the red spark went out in the darkness a lonely birdcall
floated across the river--the strange squealing plaint of the great
cock-o'-the-pines. She answered, imitating it perfectly. Then a far
voice called:

"Hallo-o-o! How's fishin'?"

She picked up her pine candle, hurried out to the bank and crept
cautiously down the crazy, wooden stairs. Setting her torch in the iron
cage at the bow, she cast off the painter and, standing erect, swung the
long pole. Out into obscurity shot the punt, deeper and deeper plunged
the pole. She headed up river to allow for the current; the cool breeze
blew her hair and bathed her bared throat and arms deliciously; crimson
torchlight flickered crisscross on the smooth water ahead.

Every muscle in her body was in play now; the heavy pole slanted, rose
and plunged; the water came clip! slap! clap! slap! against the square
bows, dusting her with spray.

On, on, tossing and pitching as the boat hit the swift, deep, center
current; then the pole struck shallower depths, and after a while her
torch reddened foliage hanging over the northern river bank.

She drove her pole into the clay as the punt's bow grated; a Federal
cavalryman--a mere lad--muddy to the knees, brier-torn, and ghastly
pale, waded out through the shallows, revolver in hand, clambered
aboard, and struck the torch into the water.

"Take me over," he gasped. "Hurry, for God's sake! I tell you----"

"Was it you who called?"

"Yes. Snuyder sent you, didn't he? Don't stand there talking----"

With a nervous stroke she drove the punt far out into the darkness, then
fell into a measured, swinging motion, standing nearer the stern than
the bow. There was no sound now but the lapping of water and the man's
thick breathing; she strove to pierce the darkness between them, but she
could see only a lumpish shadow in the bow where he crouched.

"I reckon you're Roy Allen," she began, but he cut her short:

"Damn it! What's that to you?"

"Nothing. Only Snuyder's gone."

"When?"

"Some days ago, leaving me to ferry folk over.... He told me how to
answer you when you called like a cock-o'-the-pines."

"Did he?" The voice was subdued and sullen.

For a while he remained motionless, then, in the dull light of the
fog-shrouded stars she saw him face her, and caught the faint sparkle of
his weapon resting on his knees, covering her.

"It seems to me," he said fiercely, "that you are asking a good many
questions. Which side pays you?"
