between Scylla and Charybdis had opened, and 
though it gave them a shock and snapped one 
oar they soon righted. Having done that, the 
bursting cloud sent the blue black drifts and 
 
tatters over the sky and subsided, though the 
tumult on the river lingered. 
"Now we must try to back out since we can- 
not go forward," said May. "A good strong 
push, girls." 
They all tried, paused and rested, and tried 
again, yet they* were not simply aground but 
wedged in a sort of gorge that held them 
prisoners. 
"Oh, what shall we do ?" in a chorus of anxious 
tones. "How can we get out?" 
"We are safe at least, and there is no danger 
of a shower. See how blue it is in the north, 
almost like a winter night." 
"If someone would come along !" 
They all shouted in unison and a thousand 
echoes were the only answer. Again and again 
they shouted until the woods rang, but with no 
result. 
"We cannot stay here all night, though I think 
there would be a rescue party. Til tell you what 
I am going to do. Do you see that light glim- 
mering through the little opening? Fm sure it 
is a house. I'm going to wade to the shore and 
run up there." 
May Bradshaw stood up in her young strength, 
her voice inspiring. 
 
"Oh, you don't know how deep the water is." 
"ril take an oar to measure. Don't be afraid." 
"But you'll get awful wet." 
"ril pin up my skirts and not mind the rest" 
She stepped out bravely with the oar for an 
alpenstock, and threaded her way safely, giving a 
cheer as she reached the shore. 'Then she picked 
her way up to the cottage light, where a large 
family were seated round the tea table. A woman 
stood at the head, dishing out a savory stew. 
Miss Bradshaw told her plight without any 
circumlocution. Could they get another boat to 
take them home? 
"Well now," exclaimed the biggest boy, "we 
ain't got no boat. They've one over to Bee- 
croft's." 
"Where is that?" 
"A spell up the river. If you'll wait until I 
get my supper, I'll go along, I'm powerful hun- 
gry." 
"I've heerd that this ten or twelve year," com- 
mented the woman with a grim but not unkindly 
smile. 
Powerfully hungry he seemed to be. The 
woman insisted that Miss Bradshaw should have 
a cup of tea and a chunk of 'lasses cake, but she 
would accept only a glass of milk. It was rather 
funny to hear the children's good natured wran- 
gle. At last Jack was ready to start. 
It was a rough road and a very long "spell," 
Miss Bradshaw thought, and here they had just 
finished supper. There was Mr. Beecroft and 
his wife, Tim, eighteen or so, and two girls. Miss 
Bradshaw repeated her story. 
"Well, if that don't beat all!" exclaimed the 
senior. "Last week we thought we'd blast the 
pesky thing out, it's bothered for years. We 
did kick up a bobbery but we hadn't enough dyna- 
mite. We split the thing consid'able, an' I s'pose 
you jest druv in it slick as grease ! It's funny 
enough to laugh about," and he did that to per- 
fection. "We're goin' to take the hull p'int 
out when we get some more dynamite. Tim, 
you get out the boat and go an' help the gals 
outen the scrape. 'Pears like we helped to get 
'em in it. An' you take the lantern, too." 
"There are eight of us," said Miss Bradshaw. 
"Well I declare !" ejaculated Mr. Beecroft. 
"You had better get the Ketchems' boat," said 
one of the girls. "Ours leaks, you know." 
"Well— I think I had," nodding his head re- 
flectively. "I'll get it and row down. Jack, you 
see that the lady don't go astray in the woods." 
Miss Bradshaw expressed her gratitude and 
 
the party started out, Tim with tremendous 
strides. It was quite dark under the trees, but 
the moon made a silvery radiance on the river 
as here and there they caught glimpses of it. But 
she was in no mood to enjoy the serene beauty of 
the night and she hardly listened to Jack, who 
felt well enough acquainted to be loquacious. 
Were the girls worried? Did it seem long to 
them? 
They watched the stars come out, and aired 
their astronomy, speculating on the worlds so 
hidden from mortal ken. It was growing colder, 
so they drew their dress skirts up over their 
shoulders, and talked over the test questions and 
hopes for next year, for now they had no heart 
for merriment. The boat did not move, so they 
were secure enough. 
They saw a light coming down the river pres- 
ently. But where was May? 
A strong voice gave a shout and their courage 
revived, as they sent back a cheer. 
"She has found a boat. All's well that ends 
well," was the cheerful exclamation. 
It came swiftly down to them, its beacon light 
shining and showing up the young oarsman who 
called out: 
"Hello ! Be you the crowd fast in the rift?" 
 
They answered. But where was May? And 
had he come by pure providential accident? 
"Is there any such thing?" queried one of the 
girls. 
Tim made his explanations. Then he gave 
a shout that made the woods ring. It was soon 
answered. 
"Jack and the lady ain't far off. You see you 
would have been safe even in a shower. But 
it's rather funny that you should have been druv 
jest in here. I don't s'pose you could have done 
it on a try !" 
"The gust of wind did it. Rude Boreas sure 
enough." 
There tvas another call through the woods. 
Then the sound of voices and the rustling of 
shrubbery and the two figures emerged in the 
moonlight. 
"Oh, Mayl" exclaimed the girls in a breath. 
"Did you get tired waiting? But I found 
some one at last. It's rather lonely up here and 
not thickly settled," with a laugh. 
Tim and Jack did a little sparring at first. Then 
the elder said to the girls : 
"I'll hold my boat stiddy up to your stern and 
you step over keerful, jest one at a time, though 
you'd only get a ducking if you tumbled, you 
 
wouldn't drown. We'll see 'bout your boat to- 
morrow. Danged if I b'Heve she'll run away. 
How many of you gals can row ?" 
"Six of us." 
"Then we won't need Jack, and the boat will 
be full enough without him." 
They were taken off without any misadventure. 
Even the flowers followed suit. Miss Bradshaw 
expressed her warmest thanks to Jack, who said 
in country awkwardness — " 'Twas jest nothin' at 
all, only I don't b'lieve you could have found your 
way alone." 
Although they were cold, their spirits rose as 
they went spinning down the stream. Then 
they caught sight of another light and were 
greeted with a signal cry. 
In truth, as time passed the two ladies at the 
school began to feel very anxious, especially when 
the shower threatened. The younger girls had 
retired, the elder ones were gathered about Mrs. 
Aldred, never wearying of hearing the interesting 
episodes of her journey. Yet Helen Grant's 
thoughts strayed off now and then to the grace- 
ful, dainty figure that had stood in the hall an- 
nouncing her plans and pleasures with such a 
triumphant air. Only a few days more and they 
would give each other a careless good-bye and 
the old difference would never be made up. But 
then, other girls had gone their way, other youth- 
ful friendships had been sundered. Still she did 
regret that she must go out of the life of Mr. 
and Mrs. Bell. 
Presently there was a note of alarm. "I think 
we had better walk down to the dock," Mrs. 
Aldred said. "And it might be wisdom to send 
a boat up to meet them." 
Several of the older girls begged to go, so 
quite a party set out. No alarm was felt, as the 
girls had been up the river many a time and 
there really was no chance of an accident; they 
had gone farther than they meant, or spent more 
time gathering flowers, and the little squall 
had been only momentary. But down in the 
south there were some suspicious looking clouds 
and the wind was hovering about the east. 
However a boat went out with two men. But 
it needed not to go very far and then there was 
a cheerful shout floating down to them that told 
everybody was safe. 
"It was quite romantic," declared Miss Brad- 
shaw, with the brightest laugh she could sum- 
mon, for she was really cold and tired. "We ran 
into a rift and were wedged fast. There wasn't 
a bit of danger, but we had to hunt up someone 
 
to come to the rescue, which Mr. Beecroft did 
gallantly, and so, like the old woman with her 
misadventures, we were enabled to get home that 
very same night. Your thanks are due to him." 
He was explaining how they had failed to 
blow the rift out of the river and left it in a 
rather dangerous condition. Half a dozen vol- 
unteered to go up the next day and settle the 
matter after rescuing the boat. 
They hurried homeward, and though there had 
been no real danger there was a feeling of grati- 
tude in every heart. There were hot baths and 
ginger tea and everybody was safe in bed about 
midnight. 
"Though I think we shall get the shower after 
all," said Mrs. Aldred. "It is growing quite close 
and warm again, and the south looks suspicious. 
It would be an improvement to have a little cooler 
weather." 
CHAPTER III 
WAS IT A WISH FULFILLED? 
While the stars were still out in the north 
there were vivid flashes of lightning and purple 
black clouds seemed to rush up from the south 
while the northerly gust tore them in tatters, 
veering this way and that. Suddenly a glow 
seemed to set the world on fire, and a tremendous 
peal of thunder crashed everywhere and rolled 
off to the gulf of Mexico, followed by a sharp 
dash of rain. 
Just after the peal there was a wild cry of 
terror and when Miss Wiley opened her door to 
listen she saw a white figure running to and fro 
talking and sobbing. 
"Oh, Miss Daisy, what is it? You are safe, 
dear," and she clasped her in her arms. 
But the girl was confused and past reasoning, 
her eyes distraught, her whole frame shaking as 
with an ague. Mrs. Aldred joined her and they 
tried to tranquilize Daisy, but in vain. She talked 
of some awful danger and held tightly to the 
friendly arm. 
 
Miss Wiley glanced into her room and made a 
light. "There is nothing amiss," she explained, 
"but the peal of thunder was terrific." 
The girls came out in affright to see what had 
happened. Mrs. Aldred entreated them to re- 
turn to their rooms, and begged Miss Wiley to 
take Daisy to hers while she prepared a com- 
posing draught, and called up the nurse. There 
was no real danger, and in all probability Miss 
Bell had been roused from her first sleep and was 
hysterical. 
"Of course their adventure was trying to the 
nerves and I noticed that Miss Daisy looked 
utterly exhausted. But if we can get her to sleep 
again I think she will be all right." 
Mary came and tried her soothing powers but 
Daisy appeared possessed by some wild idea of 
flight She swallowed the draught, but it did not 
seem to calm her. 
"Oh, I do hope it will not be serious ! She was 
counting so on Commencement, and has passed 
so successfully." 
The rain had nearly ceased, though there were 
some distant mutterings of thunder. 
"I want Helen Grant," Daisy exclaimed sud- 
denly, making another attempt to leave her bed. 
"I must go to her. There is something — " 
 
"Helen will come here," and Mrs. Aldred nod- 
ded to Mary to summon her. 
The girls had hardly subsided from the dis- 
turbance. Helen answered at once, and slipping 
on a wrapper went to the room in a curious state 
of trepidation. Daisy was tossing about with 
half-closed eyes and flushed face, her golden hair 
like a cloud about her. 
"Speak to her," said nurse Mary, '*She seems 
hardly conscious." 
To come this way. To speak some words of 
soothing and comfort and perhaps be repulsed ! 
"Daisy;" — the voice was low and clear. 
"Daisy," and she took one hand in hers, that 
were steady if her nerves were not. "I am here 
and the storm is all over. Nothing shall harm 
you." 
Daisy quieted a moment, then she burst out 
again wanderingly. She was in the boat and 
begged to be saved. "I must see Helen," she cried. 
"Talk to her — anything to calm her until the 
sedative takes effect." 
Oh, what should she say? She longed to 
take her in the arms that had enfolded her many 
a time, but she was afraid of rousing some an- 
tagonism. Then like an inspiration a poem of 
Whittier's came to her, one they had both been 
 
fond of. In a slow, clear voice she began though 
she had to make an effort. The lines were so 
regular, so full of faith and love and like swells 
of music. Daisy seemed to listen though she 
still sobbed a little and tossed about, but the mo- 
tions lost their violence, and a sort of languor 
crept over her. Helen came to the last verse — 
"I know not where the islands lift 
Their fronded palms in air; 
I only know I cannot drift 
Beyond His love and care.** 
Daisy opened her eyes wide and glanced at 
Helen, then they drooped slowly, and she gave a 
long, quivering breath and was quiet. 
"I think she will sleep now. The draught and 
your voice. Miss Grant, have conquered" and the 
nurse smiled. 
"You seemed to know the best thing to do," 
said Mrs. Aldred. "I hope you will get a little 
sleep yourself as a reward for your kindly service. 
We all thank you." 
"I am glad I could do it," and with one 
look at Daisy, Helen slipped quietly from the 
room. 
She explained in a low tone that it had not 
been anything worse than a severe nervous fright 
If it had not been a breach of the rules she felt 
indisposed to talk even to Juliet. Did a lost love 
ever truly come back, she wondered. 
The girls were bright enough the next morn- 
ing and disposed to look at the amusing side of 
the adventure. Miss Bradshaw recounted her 
search for a man and a boat with the utmost 
spirit. They had saved their rhododendrons, and 
fortunately missed the brief shower. The morn- 
ing was splendidly clear and somewhat cooler. 
Mrs. Aldred announced that Miss Bell had 
no fever and only felt languid, but that she had 
advised her to remain in bed most of the day, 
and as she wished her kept quiet, she hoped the 
girls would refrain from calling on her. 
There was shopping for trifles and mementos, 
calls of farewell to make on some of the resi- 
dents, and still a little reviewing for a few of the 
last examinations. 
Late in the afternoon Helen sat on the porch 
telling some of the younger division the story of 
the Golden Fleece. Miss Craven had gone down- 
town with the Gartney twins. 
Mary came and paused in the doorway wait- 
ing for the story to be finished. Then coming for- 
ward she said : 
"Miss Grant, Miss Bell would like to see you. 
 
She feels quite well, but rather weak, and will 
not come down to dinner." 
Helen rose and walked slowly upstairs. She 
had been wondering how they would meet, if 
they would go back to the old indifferent polite- 
ness. She tapped at the door and there was a 
gresit throb in her throat. 
"Come," answered a tremulous voice. 
Daisy Bell was pillowed up in the bed, her 
soft shining hair wound around her head like 
a crown, with a few stray ends shadowing her 
forehead. She was still very pale, but her eyes 
were mysteriously wistful. She nodded and mo- 
tioned Helen to a seat near the bed, and for a 
moment or so neither spoke. 
"Nurse Mary told me what a time I made in 
the night, and insisted on having you. It's queer, 
but it is all like the ends of a confused dream 
to me. And you sent me to sleep with the old 
poem — " 
"The medicine deserves some credit," inter- 
rupted Helen. 
Daisy put out her hand. "Helen," she mur- 
mured pleadingly. 
Helen took it, leaned over and kissed her and 
both cried a little in girl fashion. Then Helen 
 
said — "Oh, don't, dear, you will make yourself 
ill again." 
"I must say it. I've been mean and ungen- 
erous and yes, untruthful, for I allowed mamma 
to believe what was not so. I might have cor- 
rected the mistake, but I was too angry. I've 
been very unhappy, too. Sometimes I have not 
loved you a bit, then I have wanted you so much 
and envied that girl who has all your heart." 
"She has not all of it. She knows there are 
several others, but she has her share and is con- 
tent. And I wish dozens of people loved 
her." 
"I want to tell you how I came to misunder- 
stand at first. Miss Craven was describing her 
visit with you to Miss Wiley, then she turned 
to me and said, — 'I spent Christmas at Hope 
with your friend Miss Grant,' and I turned rudely 
away. I saw it all in a flash. You would not 
come to me because you had planned to have her 
— the last visit before you went away — " 
"Oh, Daisy!" cried the listener in pained en- 
treaty. "It was not so — " 
"Yes, I know now. She tried to explain but 
I would not listen. She sent a note and I re- 
turned it unopened. Then I wrote to you. I 
was so angry that I did not care what I said. 
 
And in your answer I thought I saw proof of 
duplicity. And I told mamma what was not 
really true, then I was frightened lest you should 
write the other side of the affair." 
Helen thought of the letter she had written 
and destroyed, and was thankful she had kept 
silent. 
"You are very noble and generous. I am 
selfish and jealous. Though it doesn't seem as 
if I had ever been jealous of any one else. And 
last night in the boat — of course there wasn't 
any real danger for we could easily have waded 
ashore, but the moments of waiting seemed so 
long. It was so still and solemn with the stars 
reading your very thoughts. You know it is said 
a drowning man can think over his whole life in 
one fateful moment. It came to me that if I 
were dying suddenly there were some things I 
should want different. I should want mamma 
to know how unjust I had been to you. I was 
so surprised at your return here, and though 
I would have given anything to come back to 
you, I kept saying to myself you did not care, 
that you had no real love for me, and so I was 
cold and distant. In the night I had a dreadful 
dream. I seemed going round and round in a 
whirlpool, and every time I passed you I tried 
 
to catch your hand, but each time I missed it 
until it seemed as if I was swallowed up in the 
sea and everything was crashing to pieces." 
"That was the terrible clap of thunder. There 
was only a very brief shower." 
"I am glad it did not come while we were 
in the boat. I think I should have gone crazy." 
"You should have heard Miss Bradshaw de- 
scribe the episode this morning and her search 
for a boy and a boat. It was very amusing," and 
Helen tried to smile. 
"Helen," in a low, tremulous tone, "will you 
take me back and let us begin over again?" 
Ah, how blessed that there are places in life 
where one can begin over again, that God has 
Helen leaned over and kissed her but neither 
of them spoke. Both hearts were full. 
"I don't suppose you will ever love me best of 
all again ?" Daisy questioned tentatively. 
"I wonder if there is any best of all to me;" 
and Helen's eyes deepened with thoughtfulness. 
"There are so many splendid things in the world, 
so many lovely people. God's beautiful earth and 
the many souls He has put here to be loved and 
comforted. How can one refuse? We are not 
to turn away from those in need." 
 
"Helen," in a slow awed tone, "are you re- 
ligious ?" 
"I don't quite know what is meant by that. 
It is a life work, and it is like other lessons you 
do not always catch the true meaning of at first. 
But I try not to do the things to others that I 
would not like them to do to me. That is a good 
rule to go by and some of the old world philos- 
ophers considered it among the best precepts. But 
the Golden Rule is better, nobler." 
"It must be hard to be always trying to reach 
a high ideal," Daisy sighed. 
Helen wondered a little what her idfeals were, 
or if she had anything nobler than the wish to 
make others happy. She hoped never to think 
wholly of herself and her own pursuits. 
"Mamma and Marjorie are coming on Wednes- 
day. They will stay at the hotel. Papa hopes 
to come up in the morning. I'm glad to be friends 
again," pressing the hand she held to her cheek. 
"And I will try not to envy Miss Craven. I don't 
seem to mind any one else." 
"Oh, don't envy her. You have your delight- 
ful home and relatives, and she has no one. The 
only real friend she has made has an invalid hus- 
band, and they must travel for his health. Her 
guardian and his wife are very worldly peo- 
 
pie. Aldred House is the happiest home she 
has ever known. And she really has not the 
faculty of making the best of herself." 
"And she isn't pretty." Daisy found a great 
compensation in that. 
"Some girls are very attractive without being 
pretty. She is too retiring, too doubtful of her 
own powers. You see she was brought up in 
such a solitary manner — '* 
"But there is no end of money, I have heard." 
"She doesn't want her money regarded as her 
chief attraction." 
Daisy was half inclined to say that it was, but 
nurse Mary came up with a tempting supper, 
and remarked that she had talked quite long 
enough, as they wanted her to save her strength 
for to-morrow. Helen rose with her cheerful 
smile and uttered some heartfelt wishes. She 
was thankful that the breach had been healed, 
but not satisfied with herself. Had her father's 
severe training rendered her quicker to see small 
defects and superficialities ? She really wanted to 
love Daisy with the olden regard, now more than 
ever, yet it seemed as if she had gone past her. 
Mrs. Aldred had said a friendship might be out- 
grown, was that what had happened? 
Daisy had quite an ovation when she came 
 
down the next morning. Her place at the table 
was fragrant with flowers and everybody sent 
her smiles and cordial greetings. She did enjoy 
the attention very much, and though rather pale 
was soon her charming olden self. 
It was a very busy day with the arranging 
of all the flowers that could be safely put in 
their places, and the rooms resembled gardens. 
Then several of the girls who expected friends 
went down to the train. Miss Bradshaw's 
brother and sister-in-law had come and were to 
take her with them on a Canadian tour, hoping 
that a summer of pleasure would change her plan 
of burying herself four years in college life. 
Helen looked at the happy, vigorous girl with 
new interest. She thought she would like just 
such a friend. 
And there were Mrs. Bell and Marjorie, a 
rather tall, slim girl with a sweet, tender face 
like her mother. Mrs. Bell pressed Helen's hand 
with a warmth the girl understood. Marjorie 
said: 
"Miss Helen, I should know you anywhere 
from father's description of you. I believe half 
his desire to come up here to-morrow is to see 
you." 
Helen flushed with pleasure, thankful from 
 
the depths of her heart that she was to keep 
these dear friends. 
They were escorted to the hotel in quite a 
triumphant manner. Daisy, Helen and Miss 
Bradshaw were to remain to dinner. Daisy and 
Marjorie were seated together, there were so 
many things to talk over. Helen was on the 
other side of Mrs. Bell. 
"I was glad to hear that you had come to 
Aldred House," she said. "I see you and Daisy 
have made up your little misunderstanding. Daisy 
IS very quick to resent at times. And we all 
sympathize so with you in your sorrow. But you 
did not need to go to Rome a prisoner." 
"Nor even to London. But I took a good deal 
of comfort in the brave old Apostle," and as she 
glanced up there was a misty softness in her 
eyes. 
"We should all have been so sorry to have 
you go. It was not quite such a grief as if you 
had been your father's companion for years, but 
there is a pang in every broken tie. And we 
all rejoice that you can follow out your wish to 
go to college." 
"I am sometimes afraid the difficulties have 
been turned aside too easily. I was unwilling in 
my heart to go away. The future looked dreary 
 
to me. I like eagerness and action and earnest, 
living people and the delight that comes from real 
companionship. And I can't help feeling glad 
and thankful that I am a girl. I do not desire 
to be an abstruse, profound, and erudite pundit, 
I want to know the things of to-day and do the 
work of to-day if I can." 
Mrs. Bell smiled. Her earnest endeavor would 
be doing rather than dreaming or enjoying. Yet 
she would be capable of all the sweetness and de- 
light that hallowed any woman's life. Would she 
miss it if she thrust it aside? 
After dinner they all went over to Aldred 
House. There were several other callers. Helen 
managed that Mrs. Bell should meet Miss Cra- 
ven, who was quite at her best this evening. Helen 
was glad that she had overcome her fear of 
strangers to so great a degree. 
The house was really crowded the next day. 
Some one said it was an ideal girls' temple of 
learning. Certainly it had been made beautiful 
with trailing vines and flowers, and the girls were 
all simply gowned in white. It was one of the 
regulations that there should be no extravagant 
dressing on this occasion. Helen felt like her 
olden self. It seemed only the other day when 
she sat among the juniors, a little girl in short 
skirts, wondering at the events that happened 
to her and brought her here. There were so 
many new girls, and a number of the older ones 
had gone. 
There was some fine music. Miss Craven 
played an exquisite Fantasia. There was a saluta- 
tory in verse ; Miss Bradshaw ably descanted on 
the hopes of college life; one of the graduates 
took the Home for her theme and made it very 
attractive. Mrs. Aldred gave the closing ad- 
dress to the graduates. It was full of practical 
thought, of the discrimination needed to make a 
success in any calling, in understanding and ad- 
mitting one's own limitations even if it brought a 
pang of disappointed ambition. Men were not 
fitted for every walk in life, and there were many 
failures from taking up the wrong pursuits. In 
friendship as well much care was needed, espe- 
cially among young girls. A well-balanced 
mother was the truest and best confidant one 
could have, and the finest motive to an earnest 
life was to assist those who were earnestly trying 
to attain some worthy purpose. The fine thought 
that could divine what such a one needed and 
give generously of sympathy and hope and help 
to bridge over the rough places was the true 
work of a life set in high aims, since no beneficent 
 
life was ever lived wholly to itself, and the edu- 
cation which had something uplifting to give to 
those around us was the most complete. 
The out-of-doors fete was delightful. Little 
tables of refreshment were set here and there. 
It seemed partly an ovation to Mrs. Aldred, as 
neighbors and friends came to congratulate her. 
Girls were expressing sorrow at parting and 
there were promises of writing and visits. 
Daisy Bell seemed a universal favorite, and 
Helen watched her with a curious, questioning 
mood. She had no one particular gift or genius, 
she was pretty and graceful and appealing, but 
every one offered her a delightful kind of admi- 
ration, and she accepted it quite as her right with 
a dainty sweetness. If she could sip of the 
refreshment of so many hearts, why should she 
not allow the same freedom to others? 
Helen was very much interested in Marjorie, 
who declared with a grave light in her eyes that 
Daisy was quite spoiled at school as well as at 
home, and she would look for the world to be all 
rose-color and perhaps find many disappoint- 
ments. 
"But she has such a lovely home and parents," 
Helen said with a sound of longing in her voice. 
 
"that I do not see how any sorrow can happen to 
her. She will have so much to enjoy." 
"She seems to have had a great deal here. It 
IS a pity she hasn't a younger sister to take an 
interest in, to keep her from thinking there is 
something more to life than mere personal en- 
joyment. I liked the last part of your Mrs. Al- 
dred's talk so much, it was all good, but no one 
does or ought to live for himself or herself. 
Mother had a feeling that you would make such 
a fine balance wheel for her, but you have had 
to be away all the year. I am not sure that it is 
just the thing to expect or desire others to do 
for your own. But we all give a little. An 
English poet said years ago— 
*We all can bring a little love to mend the world.' 
I often think of it. And Miss Grant, I am count- 
ing on your visit to us this summer. You know 
I missed your other one." 
She had promised last night to give a fort- 
night to the Bells later in the summer. After a 
few days spent in New York they were to take 
a trip eastward. Helen felt this would be a 
great pleasure, and she would compass it some 
way. 
The hours really were too short, and the fare- 
wells came before half had been said. 
 
"Come up to my room while I am changing my 
dress," cried Daisy. "IVe hardly seen you, there 
has been so much to-day. It was just lovely, 
wasn't it? I'm truly sorry not to come back. 
Oh, if I could be two people and one body could 
spend the next year here and the other have lots 
of fun and frolic and good times ! Now that IVe 
found you again I hate to give you up." 
Yet all day she had only thrown crumbs as it 
were to Helen. 
Now she put her arm around her and drew 
her along. There stood the open trunk waiting 
the last garments. Mary had packed it. There 
was a box of books and "traps," nailed up and 
labeled. Her traveling suit hung over a chair. 
"I want you to write real often. We mustn't 
let any new break come. I'm afraid you will 
not have a very gay time if your friend is an 
invalid. Helen, it's funny that there is some one 
always ready to ask something of you and plan 
out your life! And then someway they die. It 
would be horrid if this friend did." 
"Oh, don't!" Helen cried. 
Marjorie came up to the room. 
"Oh, you are a dear, just fold my dress, won't 
you? Helen wouldn't know what to do with the 
 
furbelows. We were saying a little preparatory 
good-bye." 
"Finish it going to the train, for you have 
scarcely a moment to spare. I hope Helen will 
kindly accompany us." 
"Oh, yes — to the latest moment," returned 
Daisy laughingly, pinning on her hat in which 
she looked more bewitching than ever. Marjorie 
snapped the trunk lid and they went down stairs 
where there were some more good-byes to be 
said, though there was quite a procession going to 
the train. 
So Daisy was divided about again. Helen 
hardly knew whether she felt pleased or sorry. 
She had been almost sure there would be an 
overflow of sentiment on Daisy's part, after their 
tender reconciliation. But it had been hurrying 
and scurrying, laughing and jesting with one and 
another ; perhaps this was best. 
The wagon hurried down with its load of 
trunks. The train came shrieking into the 
station. 
"I shall write and tell you all about the com- 
mencement," said Daisy. "I hate to say good- 
bye. Oh, I want you, dear, dear girl, you sweet, 
splendid friend, to love me ! Love me always." 
Then the train whistled and went on. Helen 
 
joined the other girls and walked back in a 
curious mood, trying not to believe there was a 
small pang at her heart. 
CHAPTER IV 
THE NEXT HAPPENINGS 
Each one of the few who remained felt lan- 
guid, but nearly half of the school had gone. 
Miss Craven devoted the early evening to her 
two little girls whose father was to come for 
them to-morrow. Helen and several others sat 
out on the porch in the moonlight, but the talk 
went on without her. She could not just tell 
why her heart was heavy. She had her dear 
friend Mrs. Bell, nothing could happen that would 
shut her out again. She would have a splendid 
year at school and her strongest wishes granted — 
she would go to college without any worriment of 
mind, what then disturbed her? 
The wisdom of this world often comes with 
a pang since it is brought with experience. She 
smiled a little to herself, but it was not joyful, 
and she could not all at once cast out the bitter- 
ness. But why should there be any bitterness? 
Had she been so thoroughly imbued with trust 
in Daisy's friendship even before the break in 
the winter? She was volatile and careless, but 
 
very sweet. The present mood dominated her to 
the exclusion of most other demands. Helen had 
taken her back so loyally after her fright and 
faltering confession, had almost wished that she 
could give the very best of herself, and after all, 
it had been only one of many things to Daisy. 
Was she jealous, Helen queried of herself? No, 
truly she did not wish the first place in Daisy's 
heart. But it hurt her to be so lightly tossed 
aside even momentarily. She had been question- 
ing whether she should not have been more frank 
about her summering, for she had left out the 
explanation that Miss Craven had been included, 
lest it might mar the newly mended friendship. 
She would never trouble again as to whether 
she should place Juliet's friendship on a higher 
round — it had made the place for itself just as 
truth and steadfastness are sure to. 
"I shall always be one of many to Daisy," she 
said to herself and it absolved her troubled con- 
science. 
The house was being stripped of faded vines 
and flowers the next morning and another relay 
of girls went away. Mrs. Wiley was to spend 
a year in Europe chaperoning three motherless 
girls, but Miss Wiley would keep her position, 
although Miss Grace Aldred would take her 
former place. Already there had been some ap- 
plications for the coming year ; the boarding de- 
partment was likely to be filled up rapidly. 
Mr. Gartney came for his little girls. He 
asked to see Miss Craven. 
"I hardly know how to thank you," he said, 
"for showing the children so much kindliness. 
