Contessa, why had she written at all? How did she know where Corbario
was stopping in Saint Moritz? Was she in the habit of writing to him?
Corbario had found her for Regina; was Settimia helping Corbario to
exercise a sort of paternal vigilance over him? Somehow Marcello did not
like that idea at all. So far as he knew, Folco had always been
singularly frank with him, and had never deceived him in the smallest
thing, even "for his own good." Marcello could only attribute good
motives to him, but the mere idea of being watched was excessively
disagreeable. He wondered whether Settimia had influenced Regina to get
him away from Paris, acting under directions from Corbario. Was Regina
deceiving him too, "for his own good"? If there is anything a man cannot
bear from those he loves best, it is that they should take counsel
together secretly to direct him "for his own good."

Marcello tried to put the thought out of his mind; but it had dawned
upon him for the first time that Folco could tell even a pious
falsehood. Yet he had no proof whatever that he had guessed right; it
was a sudden impression and nothing more. He was much more silent during
the rest of the afternoon as he drove up to Pontresina with Folco, and
it seemed to him that he had at last touched something definite; which
was strange enough, considering that it was all a matter of guess-work
and doubt.

And now fate awoke again and did one of those little things that decide
men's lives. If Folco and Marcello had stopped at the door of the
Contessa's hotel two minutes earlier, or thirty seconds later, than they
did, they would not have chanced upon the Contessa and Aurora just
coming in from a walk. But fate brought the four together precisely at
that moment. As the carriage stopped, the two ladies had come from the
opposite direction and were on the door-step.

"What a surprise!" exclaimed the Contessa, giving her hand graciously
to Folco and then to Marcello.

The latter had got hold of a thread. Since the Contessa was surprised to
see Folco, she could not possibly have already let him know that she was
in Pontresina.

"I came as soon as I knew that you were here," said Corbario quickly.

Marcello heard the words, though he was at that moment shaking hands
with Aurora, and their eyes had met. She was perfectly calm and
collected, none the worse for her adventure in the morning, and
considerably the wiser.

"Will you come in?" asked the Contessa, leading the way, as if expecting
both men to follow.

Corbario went at once. Marcello hesitated, and flushed a little, and
Aurora seemed to be waiting for him.

"Shall I come, too?" he asked.

"Just as you please," she answered. "My mother will think it strange if
you don't."

Marcello bent his head, and the two followed the others towards the
stairs at a little distance.

"Did your mother send word to Folco that you were here?" asked Marcello
quickly, in a low tone.

"Not that I know. Why?"

"It is no matter. I wanted to be sure. Thank you."

They went upstairs side by side, not even glancing at each other, much
more anxious to seem perfectly indifferent than to realise what they
felt now that they had met at last.

Marcello stayed ten minutes in the small sitting-room, talking as well
as he could. He had no wish to be alone with Aurora or her mother, and
since the visit had been pressed upon him he was glad that Folco was
present. But he got away as soon as he could, leaving Corbario to his
own devices. The Contessa gave him her hand quietly, as if she had not
expected him to stay, and she did not ask him to come again. Aurora
merely nodded to him, and he saw that just as he went out she left the
room by another door, after glancing at him once more with apparent
coldness.

He walked quickly through the village until he came near to his own
hotel, and then his pace slackened by degrees. He knew that he had felt
a strong emotion in seeing Aurora again, and he was already wishing that
he had not come away so soon. The room had been small, and it had been
uncomfortable to be there, feeling himself judged and condemned by the
Contessa and distrusted by Aurora; but he had been in an atmosphere that
recalled all his youth, with people whose mere presence together brought
back the memory of his dead mother as nothing else had done since his
illness. He was just in that state of mind in which he would have broken
away and freed himself within the hour, at any cost, if he had been
involved in a common intrigue.

At the same time he had become convinced that Folco had deceived him,
for some reason or other which he could not guess, and the knowledge was
the first serious disillusionment of his life. The deception had been
small, and perhaps intended in some mysterious way to be "for his own
good"; but it had been a distinct deception and no better than a lie. He
was sure of that.

He went upstairs slowly and Regina met him at the door of their rooms,
and took his hat and stick without a word, for she saw that something
had happened, and she felt suddenly cold. He was quite unlike himself.
The careless look was gone from his face, his young lips were tightly
closed, and he looked straight before him, quite unconscious that his
manner was hurting her desperately.

"Has Settimia been out to-day?" he asked, looking at her quickly.

"I don't know," she answered, surprised. "I went for a long walk this
morning. She probably went out into the village. I cannot tell. Why do
you ask?"

"I wish to know whether she sent a note to Saint Moritz by a messenger.
Can you find out, without asking her a direct question? I am very
anxious to know."

"I will try, but it will not be easy," said Regina, watching him.

She had made up her mind that the blow was coming, and that Marcello was
only putting off the moment when she must be told that he meant to leave
her. She was very quiet, and waited for him to speak again, for she was
too proud to ask him questions. His inquiry about Settimia was in some
way connected with what was to come. He sat down by the table, and
drummed upon it absently with his fingers for a moment. Then he looked
up suddenly and met her eyes; his look of troubled preoccupation faded
all at once, and he smiled and held out one hand to draw her nearer.

"Forgive me," he said. "All sorts of things have happened to-day. I have
been annoyed."

She came and bent over him, turning his face up to hers with her hands,
very gently. His eyes lightened slowly, and his lips parted a little.

"You are not tired of Regina yet," she said.

"No!" he laughed. "But you were right," he added, almost immediately.

"I knew I was," she answered, but not as she had expected to say the
words when she had seen him come in.

She dared not hope to keep him always, but she had not lost him yet, and
that was enough for the moment. The weight had fallen from her heart,
and the pain was gone.

"Was it what I thought?" she asked softly. "Does your stepfather wish to
separate us?"

"For a little while," Marcello answered. "He says we ought to part for a
few weeks, so that I may find out whether I love you enough to marry
you!"

"And he almost persuaded you that he was right," said Regina. "Is that
what happened?"

"That--and something else."

"Will you tell me, heart of my heart?"

In the falling twilight he told her all that had passed through his
mind, from the moment when he had seen Settimia's handwriting on the
note. Then Regina's lips moved.

"He shall pay!" she was saying under her breath. "He shall pay!"

"What are you saying?" Marcello asked.

"An Ave Maria," she answered. "It is almost dark."




CHAPTER XIV


The little house in Trastevere was shut up, but the gardener had the
keys, and came twice a week to air the rooms and sweep the paths and
water the shrubs. He was to be informed by Settimia of Regina's return
in time to have everything ready, but he did not expect any news before
the end of September; and if he came regularly, on Tuesday and Saturday,
and did his work, it was because he was a conscientious person in his
way, elderly, neat, and systematic, a good sort of Roman of the old
breed. But if he came on other days, as he often did, not to air the
rooms, but to water and tend certain plants, and to do the many
incomprehensible things which gardeners do with flower-pots, earth, and
seeds, that was his own affair, and would bring a little money in the
autumn when the small florists opened their shops and stands again, and
the tide of foreigners set once more towards Rome. Also, if he had made
friends with the gardeners at the beautiful villa on the Janiculum, that
was not Corbario's business; and they gave him cuttings, and odds and
ends, such as can be spared from a great garden where money is spent
generously, but which mean a great deal to a poor man who is anxious to
turn an honest penny by hard work.

The immediate result of this little traffic was that the gardeners at
the villa knew all about the little house in Trastevere; and what the
gardeners knew was known also by the porter, and by the other servants,
and through them by the servants of other people, and the confidential
valet told his master, and the maid told her mistress; and so everybody
had learned where "Consalvi's Regina" lived, and it was likely that
everybody would know when she came back to Rome, and whether Marcello
came with her or not.

He had not taken Folco's advice, much to the latter's disappointment and
annoyance. On the contrary, he and Regina had left the Engadine very
suddenly, without so much as letting Corbario guess that they were going
away; and Regina had managed to keep Settimia so very busy and so
constantly under her eye that the maid had not been able to send Folco a
word, warning him of the anticipated move. Almost for the first time
Marcello had made up his mind for himself, and had acted upon his
decision; and it seemed as if the exercise of his will had made a change
in his character.

They wandered from place to place; they went to Venice in the hottest
season, when no one was there, and they came down to Florence and drove
up to Vallombrosa, where they stumbled upon society, and were stared at
accordingly. They went down to Siena, they stopped in Orvieto, and drove
across to Assisi and Perugia; but they were perpetually drawn towards
Rome, and knew that they longed to be there again.

Marcello had plenty of time to think, and there was little to disturb
his meditations on the past and future; for Regina was not talkative,
and was content to be silent for hours, provided that she could see his
face. He never knew whether she felt her ignorance about all they saw,
and his own knowledge was by no means great. He told her what he knew
and read about places they visited, and she remembered what he said, and
sometimes asked simple questions which he could answer easily enough.
For instance, she wished to know whether America were a city or an
island, and who the Jews were, and if the sun rose in the west on the
other side of the world, since Marcello assured her that the world was
round.

He was neither shocked nor amused; Ercole had asked him similar
questions when he had been a boy; so had the peasants in Calabria, and
there was no reason why Regina should know more than they did. Besides,
she possessed wonderful tact, and now spoke her own language so well
that she could pass for a person of average education, so long as she
avoided speaking of anything that is learned from books. She was very
quick to understand everything connected with the people she heard of,
and she never forgot anything that Marcello told her. She was grateful
to him for never laughing at her, but in reality he was indifferent. If
she had known everything within bounds of knowledge, she would not have
been a whit more beautiful, or more loving, or more womanly.

But he himself was beginning to think, now that his faith in Folco had
been shaken, and he began to realise that he had been strangely torpid
and morally listless during the past years. The shock his whole system
had received, the long interval during which his memory had been quite
gone, the physical languor that had lasted some time after his recovery
from the fever, had all combined to make the near past seem infinitely
remote, to cloud his judgment of reality, and to destroy the healthy
tension of his natural will. A good deal of what Corbario had called
"harmless dissipation" had made matters worse, and when Regina had
persuaded him to leave Paris he had really been in that dangerous moral,
intellectual, and physical condition in which it takes very little to
send a man to the bad altogether, and not much more to kill him
outright, if he be of a delicate constitution and still very young.
Corbario had almost succeeded in his work of destruction.

He would not succeed now, for the worst danger was past, and Marcello
had found his feet after being almost lost in the quicksand through
which he had been led.

He had not at first accused Folco of anything worse than that one little
deception about the arrival of the Contessa, and of having caused him to
be too closely watched by Settimia. Little by little, however, other
possibilities had shaped themselves and had grown into certainties at an
alarming rate. He understood all at once how Folco himself had been
spending his time, while society had supposed him to be a broken
hearted widower. A few hints which he had let fall about the things he
would have shown Marcello in Paris suggested a great deal; his looks and
manner told the rest, now that Marcello had guessed the main truth. He
had not waited three months after his wife's death to profit by his
liberty and the wealth she had left him. Marcello remembered the
addresses he had given from time to time--Monte Carlo, Hombourg, Pau,
and Paris very often. He had spoken of business in his letters, as an
excuse for moving about so much, but "business" did not always take a
man to places of amusement, and Folco seemed to have visited no others.
Men whom Marcello had met had seen Corbario, and what they said about
him was by no means indefinite. He had been amusing himself, and not
alone, and the young men had laughed at his attempts to cloak his doings
under an appearance of sorrowing respectability.

As all this became clear to Marcello he suffered acutely at times, and
he reproached himself bitterly for having been so long blind and
indifferent. It was bad enough that he should have been leading a wild
life with Regina in Paris within a few months of his mother's death, but
even in the depths of his self-reproach he saw how much worse it was
that Folco should have forgotten her so soon. It was worse than a slight
upon his mother's memory, it was an insult. The good woman who was gone
would have shed hot tears if she could have come to life and seen how
her son was living; but she would have died again, could she have seen
the husband she adored in the places where many had seen him since her
death. It was no wonder that Marcello's anger rose at the mere thought.

Moreover, as Marcello's understanding awoke, he realised that Folco had
encouraged him in all he had done, and had not seemed pleased when he
had begun to live more quietly. Folco would have made him his companion
in pleasure, if he could, and the idea was horrible to Marcello as soon
as it presented itself.

It was the discovery that he had been mistaken in Corbario that most
directly helped him to regain his foothold in life and his free will.
There was more in the Spartan method than we are always ready to admit,
for it is easier to disgust most men by the sight of human degradation
than to strengthen them against temptation by preaching, or by the
lessons of example which are so very peculiarly disagreeable to the
normal man.

"I am virtuous, I am sober, I resist temptation, imitate me!" cries the
preacher. You say that you are virtuous, and you are apparently sober,
my friend; and perhaps you are a very good man, though you need not
scream out the statement at the top of your voice. But how are we to
know that you have any temptations to resist? Or that your temptations
are the same as ours, even supposing that you have any? Or that you are
speaking the truth about yourself, since what you say is so extremely
flattering to your vanity? Wherever there is preaching, those who are
preached at are expected to accept a good deal on the mere word of the
preacher, quite aside from anything they have been brought to believe
elsewhere.

"Temptation?" said a certain great lady who was not strong in theology.
"That is what one yields to, isn't it?"

She probably knew what she was talking about, for she had lived in the
world a good while, as we have. But the preacher is not very often one
of us, and he knows little of our ways and next to nothing of our real
feelings; yet he exhorts us to be like him. It would be very odd if we
succeeded. The world would probably stand still if we did, and most of
us are so well aware of the fact that we do not even try; and the sermon
simply has no effect at all, which need not prevent the preacher from
being richly remunerated for delivering it.

"Vice is very attractive, of course," he says, "but you must avoid it
because it is sinful."

And every time vice is mentioned we think how attractive it must be,
since it is necessary to preach against it so much; and the more
attractive it seems, the greater the temptation.

"Should you like to try a vice or two?" said the Spartan, "Very well.
Come with me, my boy, and you shall see what vice is; and after that, if
you care to try it, please yourself, for I shall have nothing more to
say!"

And forthwith he played upon the string of disgust, which is the most
sensitive of all the strings that vibrate in the great human instrument;
and the boy's stomach rose, and he sickened and turned away, and
remembered for ever, though he might try ever so hard to forget.

Marcello at last saw Folco as he was, though still without understanding
the worst, and with no suspicion that Folco wished him out of the world,
and had deliberately set to work to kill him by dissipation; and the
disgust he felt was the most horrible sensation that he could remember.
At the same time he saw himself and his whole life, and the perplexity
of his position frightened him.

It seemed impossible to go back and live under the same roof with
Corbario now. He flushed with shame when he remembered the luncheon at
Saint Moritz, and how he had been almost persuaded to leave poor Regina
suddenly, and to go back to Paris with his stepfather. He saw through
the devilish cleverness of the man's arguments, and when he remembered
that his dead mother's name had been spoken, a thrill of real pain ran
through his body and he clenched his teeth and his hands.

He asked himself how he could meet Folco after that, and the only answer
was that if they met they must quarrel and part, not to meet again.

He told Regina that he would not go back to the villa after they reached
Rome, but would live in the little house in Trastevere. To his surprise,
she looked grave and shook her head. She had never asked him what was
making him so silent and thoughtful, but she had guessed much of the
truth from little things; she herself had never trusted Corbario since
she had first seen his face at the hospital, and she had long foreseen
the coming struggle.

"Why do you shake your head?" he asked. "Do you not want me at the
little house?"

"The villa is yours, not his," she said. "He will be glad if you will
leave him there, for he will be the master. Then he will marry again,
and live there, and it will be hard to turn him out."

"What makes you think he wishes to marry again?"

"He would be married already, if the girl would have him," answered
Regina.

"How do you know?"

"You told me to watch, to find out. I have obeyed you. I know
everything."

Marcello was surprised, and did not quite understand. He only remembered
that he had asked her to ascertain whether Settimia had sent a note to
Folco at Saint Moritz. After a day or two she told him that she was
quite sure of it. That was all, and Regina had scarcely ever spoken of
Folco since then. Marcello reminded her of this, and asked her what she
had done.

"I can read," she said. "I can read writing, and that is very hard, you
know. I made Settimia teach me. I said with myself, if he should be away
and should write to me, what should I do? I could not let Settimia read
his letters, and I am too well dressed to go to a public letter-writer
in the street, as the peasants do. He would think me an ignorant person,
and the people in the street would laugh. That would not help me. I
should have to go to the priest, to my confessor."

"Your confessor? Do you go to confession?"

"Do you take me for a Turk?" Regina asked, laughing. "I go to confession
at Christmas and Easter. I tell the priest that I am very bad, and am
sorry, but that it is for you and that I cannot help it. Then he asks me
if I will promise to leave you and be good. And I say no, that I will
not promise that. And he tells me to go away and come back when I am
ready to promise, and that he will give me absolution then. It is always
the same. He shakes his head and frowns when he sees me coming, and I
smile. We know each other quite well now. I have told him that when you
are tired of me, then I will be good. Is not that enough? What can I do?
I should like to be good, of course, but I like still better to be with
you. So it is."

"You are better than the priest knows," said Marcello thoughtfully, "and
I am worse."

"It is not true. But if I had a letter from you, I would not take it to
the priest to read for me. He would be angry, and tear it up, and send
me away. I understood this at the beginning, so I made Settimia teach me
how to read the writing, and I also learned to write myself, not very
well, but one can understand it."

"I know. I have seen you writing copies. But how has that helped you to
find out what Folco is doing?"

"I read all Settimia's letters," Regina answered, with perfect
simplicity.

"Eh?" Marcello thought he had misunderstood her.

"I read all the letters she gets," Regina replied, unmoved. "When she
was teaching me to read I saw where she kept all her letters. It is
always the same place. There is a pocket inside a little black bag she
has, which opens easily, though she locks it. She puts the letters
there, and when she has read them over she burns them. You see, she has
no idea that I read them. But I always do, ever since you asked me about
that note. When I know that she has had a letter, I send her out on an
errand. Then I read. It is so easy!"

Regina laughed, but Marcello looked displeased.

"It is not honest to do such things," he said.

"Not honest?" Regina stared at him in amazement. "How does honesty enter
into the question? Is Settimia honest? Then honest people should all be
in the galleys! And if you knew how he writes to her! Oh, yes! You are
the 'dear patient,' and I am the 'admirable companion.' They have known
each other long, those two. They have a language between them, but I
have learned it. They have no more secrets that I do not know.
Everything the admirable companion does that makes the dear patient
better is wrong, and everything that used to make him worse was right.
They were killing you in Paris, they wanted you to stay there until you
were dead. Do you know who saved your life? It was the Contessa, when I
heard her say that you were looking ill! If you ever see her again,
thank her, for I was blind and she opened my eyes. The devil had blinded
me, and the pleasure, and I could not see. I see now, thanks to heaven,
and I know all, and they shall not hurt you. But they shall pay!"

She was not laughing now, as she said the last words under her breath,
and her beautiful lips just showed her white teeth, set savagely tight
as though they had bitten through something that could be killed. Folco
Corbario was not timid, but if he had seen her then, and known that the
imaginary bite was meant for his life, he would have taken special care
of his bodily safety whenever she was in his neighbourhood.

Marcello had listened in profound surprise, for what she said threw new
light on all he had thought out for himself of late.

"And you say that Folco is thinking of marrying again," he said, almost
ashamed to profit by information obtained as Regina had got it.

"Yes, he is in love with a young girl, and wishes to marry her."

Marcello said nothing.

"Should you like to know her name?" asked Regina.

Still Marcello was silent, as if refusing to answer, and yet wishing
that she should go on.

"I will tell you," Regina said. "Her name is Aurora dell' Armi."

Marcello started, and looked into her face, doubting her word for the
first time. He changed colour, too, flushing and then turning pale.

"It is not true!" he cried, rather hoarsely. "It cannot be true!"

"It is true," Regina answered, "but she will not have him. She would not
marry him, even if her mother would allow it."

"Thank God!" exclaimed Marcello fervently.

Regina sighed, and turned away.




CHAPTER XV


Ercole sat on the stone seat that ran along the wall of the inn, facing
the dusty road. He was waiting in the cool dawn until it should please
the innkeeper to open the door, and Nino crouched beside him, his head
resting on his forepaws.

A great many years had passed since Ercole had sat there the last time,
but nothing had changed, so far as he could see. He had been young, and
the women had called him handsome; his face had not been shrivelled to
parchment by the fever, and there had been no grey threads in his thick
black hair. Nino had not been born then, and now Nino seemed to be a
part of himself. Nino's grandam had lain in almost the same spot then,
wolfish and hungry as her descendant was now, and only a trifle less
uncannily hideous. It was all very much the same, but between that time
and this there lay all Ercole's life by the Roman shore.

When he had heard, as every one had, how Marcello had been brought to
Rome on the tail of a wine-cart, he had been sure that the boy had been
laid upon it while the cart was standing before Paoluccio's inn in the
night. He knew the road well, and the ways of the carters, and that they
rarely stopped anywhere else between Frascati and Rome. Again and again
he had been on the point of tramping up from the seashore to the place,
to see whether he could not find some clue to Marcello's accident there,
but something had prevented him, some old dislike of returning to the
neighbourhood after such a long absence. He knew why he had not gone,
but he had not confided the reason even to Nino, who was told most
things. He had, moreover, been tolerably sure that nothing short of
thumb-screws would extract any information from Paoluccio or his wife,
for he knew his own people. The only thing that surprised him was that
the boy should ever have left the inn alive after being robbed of
everything he had about him that was worth taking.

Moreover, since Marcello had been found, and was alive and well, it was
of very little use to try and discover exactly what had happened to him
after he had been last seen by the shore. But the aspect of things had
changed since Ercole had heard the sailor's story, and his wish to see
the place where the boy had been hidden so long overcame any repugnance
he felt to visiting a neighbourhood which had unpleasant associations
with his younger years.

He sat and waited at the door, and before the sun rose a young woman
came round the house with the big key and opened the place, just as
Regina had done in old days. She looked at Ercole, and he looked at her,
and neither said anything as she went about her work, sprinkling the
floor with water and then sweeping it, and noisily pulling the heavy
benches about. When this operation was finished, Ercole rose and went
in, and sat down at the end of a table. He took some bread and cheese
from his canvas bag and began to eat, using his clasp-knife.

"If you wish wine," said the woman, "you will have to wait till the
master comes down."

Ercole only answered by raising his head and throwing out his chin,
which means "no" in gesture language. He threw pieces of the bread and
the rind of the cheese to his dog. Nino caught each fragment in the air
with a snap that would have lamed a horse for a month. The woman glanced
nervously at the animal, each time she heard his jagged teeth close.

Paoluccio appeared in due time, without coat or waistcoat, and with his
sleeves rolled up above the elbows, as if he had been washing. If he
had, the operation had succeeded very imperfectly. He glanced at Ercole
as he passed in.

"Good-morning," he said, for he made it a point to be polite to
customers, even when they brought their own food.

"Good-morning," answered Ercole, looking at him curiously.

Possibly there was something unusual in the tone of Ercole's voice, for
Nino suddenly sat up beside his master's knee, forgetting all about the
bread, and watched Paoluccio too, as if he expected something. But
nothing happened. Paoluccio opened a cupboard in the wall with a key he
carried, took out a bottle of the coarse aniseed spirits which the Roman
peasants drink, and filled himself a small glass of the stuff, which he
tossed off with evident pleasure. Then he filled his pipe, lit it
carefully, and went to the door again. By this time, though he had
apparently not bestowed the least attention on Ercole, he had made up
his mind about him, and was not mistaken. Ercole belonged to the better
class of customers.

"You come from the Roman shore?" he said, with an interrogation.

"To serve you," Ercole assented, with evident willingness to enter into
conversation. "I am a keeper and watchman on the lands of Signor
Corbario."

Paoluccio took his pipe from his mouth and nodded twice.

"That is a very rich gentleman, I have heard," he observed. "He owns
much land."

"It all belongs to his stepson, now that the young gentleman is of age,"
Ercole answered. "But as it was his mother's, and she married Signor
Corbario, we have the habit of the name."

"What is the name of the stepson?" asked Paoluccio.

"Consalvi," Ercole replied.

Paoluccio said nothing to this, but lit his pipe again with a sulphur
match.

"Evil befall the soul of our government!" he grumbled presently, with
insufficient logic, but meaning that the government sold bad tobacco.

"You must have heard of the young gentleman," Ercole said. "His name is
Marcello Consalvi. They say that he lay ill for a long time at an inn on
this road--"

"For the love of heaven, don't talk to me about Marcello Consalvi!"
cried Paoluccio, suddenly in a fury. "Blood of a dog! If you had not the
face of an honest man I should think you were another of those newspaper
men in disguise, pigs and animals that they are and sons of evil
mothers, and ill befall their wicked dead, and their little dead ones,
and those that shall be born to them!"

Paoluccio's eyes were bloodshot and he spat furiously, half across the
road. Nino watched him and hitched the side of his upper lip on one of
his lower fangs, which produced the effect of a terrific smile. Ercole
was unmoved.

"I suppose," he observed, "that they said it happened in your inn."

"And why should it happen in my inn, rather than in any other inn?"
inquired Paoluccio angrily.

"Indeed," said Ercole, "I cannot imagine why they should say that it
did! Some one must have put the story about. A servant, perhaps, whom
you sent away."

"We did not send Regina away," answered Paoluccio, still furious. "She
ran away in the night, about that time. But, as you say, she may have
invented the story and sent the newspaper men here to worry our lives
with their questions, out of mere spite."

"Who was this Regina?" Ercole asked. "What has she to do with it?"

"Regina? She was the servant girl we had before this one. We took her
out of charity."

"The daughter of some relation, no doubt," Ercole suggested.

"May that never be, if it please the Madonna!" cried Paoluccio. "A
relation? Thank God we have always been honest people in my father's
house! No, it was not a relation. She came of a crooked race. Her mother
took a lover, and her father killed him, here on the Frascati road, and
almost killed her too; but the law gave him the right and he went free."

"And then, what did he do?" asked Ercole, slowly putting the remains of
his bread into his canvas bag.

"What did he do? He went away and never came back. What should he do?"

"Quite right. And the woman, what became of her?"

"She took other men, for she had no shame. And at last one of them was
jealous, and struck her on the head with a paving stone, not meaning to
kill her; but she died."

"Oh, she died, did she?"

"She died. For she was always spiteful. And so that poor man went to the
galleys, merely for hitting her on the head, and not meaning to kill
her."

"And you took the girl for your servant?"

"Yes. She was old enough to work, and very strong, so we took her for
charity. But for my part, I was glad when she ran away, for she grew up
handsome, and with that blood there surely would have been a scandal
some day."

"One sees that you are a very charitable person," Ercole observed
thoughtfully. "The girl must have been very ungrateful if she told
untrue stories about your inn, after all you had done for her. You had
nourished a viper in your house."

"That is what my wife says," Paoluccio answered, now quite calm. "Those
are my wife's very words. As for believing that the young man was ever
in this house, I tell you that the story is a wicked lie. Where should
we have put him? In the cellar with the hogsheads, or in the attic with
the maid? or in our own room? Tell me where we could have put him! Or
perhaps they will say that he slept on the ceiling, like the flies? They
will say anything, chattering, chattering, and coming here with their
questions and their photographing machines, and their bicycles, and the
souls of their dead! If you do not believe me, you can see the place
where they say that he lay! I tell you there is not room for a cat in
this house. Believe me if you like!"

"How can I not believe such a respectable person as you seem to be?"
inquired Ercole gravely.

"I thank you. And since it happens that you are in the service of the
young gentleman himself, I hope you will tell him that if he fancies he
was in my house, he is mistaken."

"Surely," said Ercole.

"Besides," exclaimed Paoluccio, "how could he know where he was? Are not
all inns on these roads alike? He was in another, that is all. And what
had I to do with that?"

"Nothing," assented Ercole. "I thank you for your conversation. I will
take a glass of the aniseed before I go, if you please."

"Are you going already?" asked Paoluccio, as he went to fetch the bottle
and the little cast glass from which he himself had drunk.

"Yes," Ercole answered. "I go to Rome. I stopped to refresh myself."

"It will be hot on the road," said Paoluccio, setting the full glass
down on the table. "Two sous," he added, as Ercole produced his old
sheepskin purse. "Thank you."

"Thank you," Ercole answered, and tipped the spirits down his throat.
"Yes, it will be hot, but what can one do? We are used to it, my dog and
I. We are not of wax to melt in the sun."

"It is true that this dog does not look as if he were wax," Paoluccio
remarked, for the qualities of Nino had not escaped him.

"No. He is not of wax. He is of sugar, all sugar! He has a very sweet
nature."

"One would not say so," answered Paoluccio doubtfully. "If you go to the
city you must muzzle him, or they will make you pay a fine. Otherwise
they will kill him for you."

"Do you think any one would try to catch him if I let him run loose?"
asked Ercole, as if in doubt. "He killed a full-grown wolf before he was
two years old, and not long ago he worried a sheepdog of the Campagna as
if it had been nothing but a lamb. Do you think any one would try to
catch him?"

"If it fell to me, I should go to confession first," said Paoluccio.

So Ercole left the inn and trudged along the road to Rome with Nino at
his heels, without once looking behind him; past the Baldinotti houses
and into the Via Appia Nuova, and on into the city through the gate of
San Giovanni, where the octroi men stopped him and made him show them
what he had in his canvas bag. When they saw that there was no cheese
left and but little bread, they let him go by without paying anything.

He went up to the left and sat down on the ground under the trees that
are there, and he filled his little clay pipe and smoked a while,
without even speaking to his dog. It was quiet, for it was long past the
hour when the carts come in, and the small boys were all gone to school,
and the great paved slope between the steps of the basilica and the gate
was quite deserted, and very white and hot.

Ercole was not very tired, though he had walked all night and a good
part of the morning. He could have gone on walking till sunset if he had
chosen, all the way to his little stone house near Ardea, stopping by
the way to get a meal; and then he would not have slept much longer than
usual. A Roman peasant in his native Campagna, with enough to eat and a
little wine, is hard to beat at walking. Ercole had not stopped to rest,
but to think.

When he had thought some time, he looked about to see if any one were
looking at him, and he saw that the only people in sight were a long way
off. He took his big clasp-knife out of his pocket and opened it. As the
clasp clicked at the back of the blade Nino woke and sat up, for the
noise generally meant food.

The blade was straight and clean, and tolerably sharp. Ercole looked at
it critically, drew the edge over his coarse thumb-nail to find if there
were any nick in the steel, and then scratched the same thumb-nail with
it, as one erases ink with a knife, to see how sharp it was. The point
was like a needle, but he considered that the edge was dull, and he drew
it up and down one of the brown barrels of his gun, as carefully as he
would have sharpened a razor on a whetstone. After that he stropped it
on the tough leathern strap by which he slung the gun over his shoulder
when he walked; when he was quite satisfied, he shut the knife again and
put it back into his pocket, and fell to thinking once more.

Nino watched the whole operation with bloodshot eyes, his tongue hanging
out and quivering rhythmically as he panted in the heat to cool himself.
When the knife disappeared, and the chance of a crust with it, the dog
got up, deliberately turned his back to his master, and sat down again
to look at the view.

"You see," said Ercole to himself and Nino, "this is an affair which
needs thought. One must be just. It is one thing to kill a person's
body, but it is quite another thing to kill a person's soul. That would
be a great sin, and besides, it is not necessary. Do I wish harm to any
one? No. It is justice. Perhaps I shall go to the galleys. Well, I shall
always have the satisfaction, and it will be greater if I can say that
this person is in Paradise. For I do not wish harm to any one."

Having said this in a tone which Nino could hear, Ercole sat thinking
for some time longer, and then he rose and slung his gun over his
shoulder, and went out from under the trees into the glaring heat, as if
he were going into the city. But instead of turning to the left, up the
