" We will call it that," he said with an odd laugh. 

" Very well." She seated herself on the sand and 
calmly shook out her skirts. 

" About what time would you like to be called.'' " he 
asked smilingly. 

" Thank you, I shall do no sun-dreaming." 

" Please. It is good for you." 

" No, it isn't good at all. And I am grateful to you 
for waking me," she retorted with a sudden gay malice 
that subdued him. And she, delicate nose in the air, 
laughingly watching him, went on with her punishment : 
" You see what you've done, don't you ? — saved me from 
an entire morning wasted in sentimental reverie over what 
might have been. Noav you can appreciate it, can't 
you? — your wisdom in appearing in the flesh to save a 
silly girl the eff'ort of evoking you in the spirit! Ah, 
Mr. Siward, I am vastly obliged to you ! Pray sit here 
beside me in the flesh, for fear that in your absence I 
might commit the folly that tempted me here." 

His low running laughter accompanying her voice 
had stimulated her to a gay audacity, which for the in- 
stant extinguished in her the little fear of him she had 
been barely conscious of. 

" Do you know," he said, " that you also aroused me 
from my sun-dreams ? " 





 



" Did I? And can't you resume them? " 

" You save me the necessity." 

" Oh, that is a second-hand compliment," she said 
disdainfully — " a weak plagiarism on what I conveyed 
very wittily. You were probably really asleep, and 
dreaming of bird-murder." 

He waited for her to finish, then, amused eyes searching, he roamed about until high on a little drifted sand 
dune he found a place for himself ; and while she watched 
him indignantly, he curled up in the sunshine, and, dropping his head on the hot sand, calmly closed his eyes. 

" Upon — my — word ! " she breathed aloud. 

He unclosed his eyes. " Now you may dream ; you 
can't avoid it," he observed lazily, and closed his eyes; 
and neither taunts nor jeers nor questions, nor frag- 
ments of shells flung with intent to hit, stirred him from 
his immobility. 

She tired of the attempt presently, and sat silent, 
elbows on her thighs, hands propping her chin. 
Thoughts, vague as the fitful breeze, arose, lingered, and, 
like the breeze, faded, dissolved into calm, through which, 
cadenced by the far beat of the ebb tide, her heart echoed, beating the steady intervals of time. 

She had not meant to dream, but as she sat there, 
the fine-spun golden threads flying from the whirling 
loom of dreams floated about her, settling over her, entangling her in unseen meshes, so that she stirred, groping amid the netted brightness, drawn onward along 
dim paths and through corridors of thought where, always beyond, vague splendours seemed to beckon. 

Now lost, now restless, conscious of the perils of the 
shining path she followed, the rhythm of an ocean sooth- 
ing her to false security, she dreamed on awake, uncon- 
scious of the tinted sea and sky which stained her eyes to 




 

hues ineffable. A long while afterward a small cloud 
floated across the sun ; and, in the sudden shadow on the 
world, doubt sounded its tiny voice, and her ears listened, 
and the enchantment faded and died away. 

Turning, she looked across the sand at the man lying 
there; her eyes considered him — how long she did not 
know, she did not heed — until, stirring, he looked up ; 
and she paled a trifle and closed her eyes, stunned by 
the sudden clamour of pulse and heart. 

When he rose and walked over, she looked up 
gravely, pouring the last handful of white sand through 
her stretched fingers. 

" Did you dream.'' " he asked lightly, 

"' Yes." 

'' Did you dream true ? " 

'' Nothing of my dream can happen,'' she said. 
" You know that, . . . don't you .'' " 

" I know that we love . . . and that we dare not 
ignore it." 

She suffered his arm about her, his eyes looking 
deeply into hers — a close, sweet caress, a union of lips, 
and her dimmed eyes' response. 

" Stephen," she faltered, " how can you make it 
so hard for me? How can you force me to this 
.shame ! " 

" Shame.'' " he repeated vaguely. 

'' Yes — this treachery to myself — when I cannot hope 
to be more to you — when I dare not love you too much ! '' 

" You must dare, Sylvia ! " 

" No, no, no! I know myself, I tell you. I can- 
not give up what is offered — for you! — dearly, dearly 
as I do love you ! " She turned and caught his hands in 
hers, flushed, trembling, unstrung. " I cannot — I sim- 
ply cannot ! How can you love me and listen to such 





 



wickedness? How can you still care for such a girl as 
I am — worse than mercenary, because I have a heart 
— or had, until you took it ! Keep it ; it is the only part 
of me not all ignoble," 

" I will keep it — in trust," he said, " until you give 
yourself with it." 

But she only shook her head wearily, withdrawing 
her hands from his, and for a time they sat silent, eyes 
apart. 

Then — " There is another reason," she said wistfully. 

He looked up at her, hesitated, and — " My habits ? " 
he asked simply. 

" Yes." 

" I have them in check." 

" Are you — certain ? " 

" I think I may be — now." 

" Yet," she said timidly, " you lost one fight — since 
you knew me." 

The dull red mantling his face wrung her heart. She 
turned impulsively and laid both hands on his shoulders. 
" That chance I would take, with all its uncertainty, all 
the dread inheritance you have come into. I love you 
enough for that; and if it turned out that — that you 
could not stem the tide, even with me to face it with you ; 
and if tbe pity of it, the grief of it, killed me, I would 
take that chance — if you loved me through it all. 
. . . But there is something else. Hush; let me have 
my say while I find the words — something else you do not 
understand. . . . Turn your face a little; please don't 
look at me. This is what you do not know — that, in 
three generations, every woman of my race has — gone 
wrong. . . . Every one! and I am beginning — with 
such a marriage! . . . deliberately, selfishly, shame-





 

lessly, perfectly conscious of the frivolous, erratic blood 
in me, aware of the race record behind rae. 

" Once, when I knew nothing — before I — I met you 
— I believed such a marriage would not only permit me 
mental tranquillity, but safely anchor me in the harbour 
of convention, leaving me free to become what I am 
fashioned to become — autocrat and arbiter in my own 
world. And now! and now! I don't know — truly I 
don't know what I may become. Your love forces my 
hand. I am displaying all the shallowness, falseness, 
pettiness, all the mean, and cruel and callous character 
which must be truly my real self. . . . Only I shall not 
marry you ! You are not to run the risk of what I 
might prove to be when I remember in bitterness all I 
have renounced. If I married you I should remember, 
unreconciled, what you cost me. Better for you and 
for me that I marr him, and let him bear with me when 
I remember that he cost me you ! " 

She bent over, almost double, closing her eyes with 
small clenched hands; and he saw the ring shimmering 
in the sunshine, and her hair, heavily, densely gold, and 
the white nape of her neck, and the tiny close-set ears, 
and the curved softness of cheek and ehin; every 
smooth, childlike contour and mould — rounded arms, 
slim, flowing lines of body and limb — all valued at many 
millions by her as her own appraiser. 

Suddenly, deep within him, something seemed to fail, 
die out — perhaps a tiny newly lighted flame of unaccus- 
tomed purity, the dawning flicker of aspiration to better 
things. Whatever it was, material, spiritual, was gone 
now, and where it had glimmered for a night, the old 
accustomed twilit doubt crept in — the same dull acquiescence — the same uncertainty of self, the familiar 
lack of will, of incentive, the congenial tendency to drift ; 





 



and with it came weariness — perliaps reaction fronm the 
recent skirmishes with that master-vice. 

" I suppose," he said in a dull voice, " you are 
right." 

" No, I am wrong — wrong ! " she said, lifting her 
lovely face and heavy eyes. " But I have chosen my 
path. . . . And you will forget." 

" I hope so," he said simply. 

" If you hope so, you will." 

He nodded, unconvinced, watching a flock of sand- 
pipers whirling into the cove like a gray snow-squall and 
fearlessly settling on the beach. 

After a while, with a long breath : " Then it is set- 
tled," she concluded. 

If she expected corroboration from him she received 
none; and perhaps she was not awaiting it. She sat 
very still, her eyes lost in thought. 

And Mortimer, peeping down at them over the 
thicket above, yawned impatiently and glanced about 
him for the most convenient avenue of self-effacement 
when the time arrived. 







CHAPTER VII 







The days of the house-party at Shotover were numbered. A fresh relay of guests was to replace them on 
Monday, and so they were making the most of the waning week on lawn and marsh, in covert and blind, or 
motoring madly over the State, or riding in parties to 
Vermillion Light. Tennis and lawn bowls came into 
fashion; even water polo and squash alternated on days 
too raw for more rugged sport. 

And during all these days Beverly Plank appeared 
with unflagging persistence and assiduity, until his fa- 
miliar, big, round head and patient, delft-blue, Dutch 
eyes became a matter of course at Shotover, indoors and 
out. 

It was not that he was either accepted, tolerated, or 
endured; he was simply there, and nobody took the 
trouble to question his all-pervading presence until every- 
body had become too much habituated to him to think 
about it at all. 

The accomplished establishment of Beverly Plank 
was probably due as much to his own obstinate and good- 
tempered persistence as to Mrs. Mortimer. He was a 
Harvard graduate — there are all kinds of them — enor- 
mously wealthy, and though he had no particular per- 
sonal tastes to gratify, he was willing and able to gratify 
the tastes of others. He did whatever anybody else 
did, and did it well enough to be amusing; and as lack 

of intellectual development never barred anybody from 
any section of the fashionable world, it seemed fair to 
infer that he would land where he wanted to, sooner or 
later. 

Meanwhile, Mrs. Mortimer led him about with the 
confidence that was her perquisite ; and the chances were 
that in due time he would have house-parties of his own 
at Black Fells — not the kind he had wisely denied himself the pleasure of giving, with such neighbours as the 
Ferralls to observe, but the sort he desired. However, 
there were many things to be accomplishd for him and 
by him before he could expect to use his great yacht and 
his estates and his shooting boxes and the vast granite 
mansion recently completed and facing Central Park 
just north of the new palaces built on the edges of the 
outer desert where Fifth Avenue fringes the hundreds. 

Meanwhile, he had become in a measure domesticated 
at Shotover, and Shotover people gradually came to 
ride, drive, and motor over the Fells, which was a good 
beginning, though not necessarily a promise for anything 
definite in the future. 

Mortimer, riding a huge chestnut — he could still 
wedge h:«nself into a saddle — had now made it a regular 
practice to affect the jocular earlj'-bird squire, and drag 
Plank out of bed. And Plank, in no position to be any- 
thing but flattered by such sans gene, laboriously and 
gratefully splashed through his bath, wallowed amid the 
breakfast plates, and mounted a hunter for long and 
apparently aimless gallops with Mortimer. 

His acquaintance among people who knew Mortimer 
being limited, he had no means of determining the lat- 
ter's social value except through hearsay and a toady- 
ing newspaper or two. Therefore he was not yet aware 
of Mortimer's perennial need of money ; and when Mor- 





 



timer laughingly alluded to his poverty, Plank accepted 
the proposition in a purely comparative sense, and 
laughed, too, his thrifty Dutch soul untroubled by misgivings. 

Meanwhile, Mortimer had come, among other 
things, on information; how much, and precisely of 
what nature, he was almost too much ashamed to admit 
definitelj', even to himself. Still, the idea that had led 
him into this sudden intimacy with Plank, vague or not, 
persisted ; and he was always hovering on the edge of 
hinting at sometliing which might elicit a responsive 
hint from the flattered master of Black Fells. 

There was much about Plank that was unaffected, 
genuine, even simple, in one sense; he cared for people 
for their own sakes; and only stubborn adherence to a 
dogged ambition had enabled him to dispense with the 
society of many people he might easily have cultivated 
and liked — people nearer his own sort ; and that, perhaps, was the reason he so readily liked Mortimer, 
whose coarse fibre soon wore through the polish when 
rubbed against by a closer, finer fibre. And Plank liked 
him aside from gratitude ; and they got on famously 
on the basis of such mutual recognition. Then, one 
day, very suddenl}', Mortimer stumbled on something 
valuable — a thread, a mere clew, so astonishing that for 
an instant it absolutely upset all his unadmitted theories 
and calculations. 

It was nothing — a vague word or two — a forced 
laugh — and the scared silence of this man Plank, who 
had blundered on the verge of a confidence to a man he 
liked. 

A moment of amazement, of half-incredulous sus- 
picion, of certainty; and Mortimer pounced playfully 
upon him like a tiger — a big, fat, friendly, jocose tiger: 









Plank, is that what you're up to ! " 
" Up to ! Why, I never thought of such a- 



" Haw ! haw ! " roared Mortimer. " If you could 
only see your face ! " 

And Beverly Plank, red as a beet, comfortably suffused with reassurance under the reaction from his scare, 
attempted to refute the other's conclusions: " It 
doesn't mean anything, Mortimer. She's just the hand- 
somest girl I ever saw. I know she's engaged. I only 
admired her a lot." 

" You're not the only man," said Mortimer blandly, 
still striving to reconcile his preconceived theories with 
the awkward half-confession of this great, red-fisted, 
hulking horseman riding at his stirrup. 

" I wouldn't have her dream," stammered Plank, 
" that I had ever thought of such a " 

" Why not.P It would only flatter her." 

" Flatter a woman who is engaged to marry another 
man ! " gasped Plank. 

" Certainly. Do you think any woman ever had 
enough admiration in this world? " asked Mortimer 
coolly. " And as for Sylvia Landis, she'd be tickled 
to death if anybody hinted that you had ever admired her." 

" Good Lord ! " exclaimed Plank, alarmed ; " You 
wouldn't make a joke of it! you wouldn't be careless 
about such a thing ! And there's Quarrier ! I'm not on 
joking terms with him; I'm on most formal terms." 

" Quarrier ! " sneered the other, flicking at his stirrup 
with his crop. " He's on formal terms with everybody, 
including himself. He never laughed on purpose in his 
life ; once a month only, to keep his mouth in ; that's his 
limit. Do you suppose any woman would stand for him 
if a better man looked sideways at her.?" And, reversing his
riding crop, he dehberately poked Mr. Plank 
in the ribs. 

" A — a better man ! " muttered Plank, scarce credit- 
ing his ears. 

" Certainly. A man who can make good, is good ; 
but a man who can make better is it with the ladies — 
God bless 'em ! " he added, displaying a heavy set of 
teeth. 

Beverly Plank knew perfectly well that, in the comparison so delicately suggested by Mortimer, his material 
equipment could be scarcely compared to the immense 
fortune controlled by Howard Quarrier; and as he 
thought it, his reflections were put into words by Mor- 
timer, airily enough : 

" Nobody stands a chance in a show-down with 
Quarrier. But " 

Plank gaped until the tension became unbearable. 

" But— what.? " he blurted out. 

" Plank," said Mortimer solemnly, and his voice 
vibrated with feeling, " Let me do a little thinking be- 
fore I ask you a — a vital question." 

But Plank had become agitated again, and he said 
something so bluntly that Mortimer wheeled on him, 
glowering : 

" Look here, Plank : you don't suppose I'm capable 
of repeating a confidence, do you.? — if you choose to 
make me understand it's a confidence." 

" It isn't a confidence ; it isn't anything ; I mean it 
is confidential, of course. All there's in it is what I said 
— or rather what you took me up on so fast," ended 
Plank, abashed. 

" About your being in love with Syl " 

" Confound it! " roared Plank, crimson to his hair; 
and he set his heavy spurs to his mount and plunged 









forward in a storm of dust, Mortimer followed, silent, 
profoundly immersed in his own thoughts and deductions ; and as he pounded along, turning over in his 
mind all the varied information he had so unexpectedly 
obtained in these last few days, a dull excitement stirred 
him, and he urged his huge horse forward in a thrill of 
rising exhilaration such as seizes on men who hunt, no 
matter what they hunt — the savage, swimming sense of 
intoxication which marks the man who chases the quarry 
not for its own value, but because it is his nature to chase 
and ride down and enjoy spoils. 

And all that afternoon, having taken to his room on 
pretence of neuralgia, he lay sprawled on his bed, thinking, thinking. Not that he meant harm to anybody, he 
told himself very frequently. He had, of course, information which certain degraded men might use in a 
contemptible way, but he, Mortimer, did not resemble 
such men in any particular. All he desired was to do 
Plank a good turn. There was nothing disreputable in 
doing a wealthy man a favour. . . . And God knew a 
wealthy man's gratitude was necessary to him at that 
very moment — gratitude substantially acknowledged. 
. . . He liked Plank — wished him well; that was all 
right, too ; but a man is an ass who doesn't wish himself 
well also. . . . Two birds with one stone. . . . Three! 
for he hated Quarrier. Four ! . . . for he had no love 
for his wife. . . . Besides, it would teach Leila a whole- 
some lesson — teach her that he still counted; serve her 
right for her disgusting selfishness about Plank. 

No, there was to be nothing disreputable in his proceedings; that he would be very careful about. . . . 
Probably Major Belwether might express his gratitude 
substantially if he, Mortimer, went to him frankly and 
volunteered iiot to mention to Quarrier the scene he had 

 

witnessed between Sylvia Landis and Stephen Siward at 
three o'clock in the morning in the corridor; and if, in 
playful corroboration, he displayed the cap and rain- 
coat and the big fan, all crushed, which objects of in- 
terest he had discovered later in the bay-window. . . . 
Yes, probably Major Belwether would be very grateful, 
because he wanted Quarrier in the family; he needed 
Quarrier in his business. . . . But, faugh ! that was 
close enough to blackmail to rub off! . . . No! . . . 
No! He wouldn't go to Belwether and promise any 
such thing ! . . . On the contrary, he felt it his duty to 
inform Quarrier! Quarrier had a right to know what 
sort of a girl he was threatened with for life! ... A 
man ought not to let another man go blindly into such 
a marriage. . . . Men owed each other something, even 
if they were not particularly close friends. . . . And 
he had always had a respect for Quarrier, even a sort of 
liking for him — yes, a distinct liking! . . . And, any- 
how, women were devils ! and it behooved men to get to- 
gether and stand for one another ! 

Quarrier would give her her walking papers damned 
quick! . . . And, in her humiliation, is there anybody 
mad enough to fancy that she wouldn't snap up Plank 
in such a fix? . . . And make it look like a jilt for 
Quarrier.'' . . . But Plank must do liis part on the min- 
ute; Plank must step up in the very nick of time; 
Plank, with his millions and his ambitions, was bound to 
be a winner anyway, and Sylvia might as well be his 
pilot and use his money. . . . And Plank would be very 
very grateful — very useful, a very good friend to have. 
. . . And Leila would learn at last that he, Mortimer, 
had cut his wisdom teeth, by God! 

As for Siward, he amounted to nothing; probably 
was one of that contemptible sort of men who butted in 









and kissed a pretty girl when he had the chance. He, 
Mortimer, had only disgust for such amateurs of the 
social by-ways ; for he himself kept to the highways, like 
any self-respecting professional, even when a tour of the 
highways sometimes carried him below stairs. There 
was no romantic sliilly-shallying fol-de-rol about him. 
Women learned what to expect from him in short order. 
En garde, Madame! — ou Mademoiselle — tant pis! 

He laughed to himself and rolled over, digging his 
head into the pillows and stretching his fat hands to 
case their congestion. And most of all he amused him- 
self with figuring out the exact degree of his wife's as- 
tonishment and chagrin when, without consulting her, 
he achieved the triumph of Quarrier's elimination and 
the theatrical entry of Beverly Plank upon the stage. 
He laughed when he thought of Major Belwether, too, 
confounded under the loss of such a nephew-in-law, 
humihated, crushed, all his misleading jocularity, all 
his sleek pink-and-white suavity, all his humbugging 
bonhomie knocked out of him, leaving only a rumpled, 
startled old gentleman, who bore an amusing resem- 
blance to a very much mussed-up buck-rabbit. 

" Haw ! haw ! " roared Mortimer, rolling about in 
his bed and kicking the slippers from his fat feet. 
Then, remembering that he was supposed to be suffering 
silently in his room, he hunched up to a sitting posture 
and regarded his environment with a subdued grin. 

Everything seems easy when it seems funny. After 
all, the matter was simple — absurdly simple. A word to 
Quarrier, and crack ! the match was off ! Girl mad as a 
hornet, but staggered, has no explanation to offer ; man 
frozen stiff with rage, mute as an iceberg. Then, zip ! 
Enter Beverly Plank — the girl's rescuer at a pinch — 
h.er preserver, the saviour of her " face," the big, highly 





 

coloured, Icaden-ej'ed deus ex machina. Would she take 
fifty cents on the dollar? Would she? to buy herself a 
new "face"? And put it all over Quarrier? And 
live happy ever after? Would she? Oh, not at all! 

And jNIortimer rolled over in another paroxysm; 
which M'asn't good for him, and frightened him enough 
to lie still awhile and think how best he might cut down 
on his wine and spirits. 

The main thing, after all, was to promise Plank his 
opportunity, but not tell him how he was to obtain it; 
for Mortimer had an uneasy idea that there was some- 
thing of the Puritan deep planted under the stolid 
young man's hide, and that he might make some absurd 
and irrelevant objection to the perfectly proper methods 
employed by his newly self-constituted guide and mentor. 
No; that was no concern of Plank's, All he had to do 
was to be ready. As for Quarrier, anybody could fore- 
cast his action when once convinced of Sylvia's behaviour. 

He lay there pondering several methods of imparting 
the sad but necessary information to Quarrier. One 
tiling was certain : there was not now time enough before 
the house-party dissolved to mould Plank into acquiescent 
obedience. That nmst be finished in town — unless Plank 
invited him to stay at the Fells after his time was up at 
Shotover. By Heaven ! That was the idea ! And 
there'd be a chance for him at cards! . . . Only, of 
course, Plank would ask Leila too. . . . But what did 
he care ! He was no longer afraid of her ; he'd soon be 
independent of her and her pittance. Let her go to the 
courts for her divorce I Let her. 

He sat up rather suddenly, perplexed with a new 
idea which, curiously enough, had not appealed to him 
before. The astonishing hint so coolly dropped by his 
wife concerning her fearlessness of divorce proceedings 









had only awakened him to the consciousness of his own 
vulnerability and carelessness of conduct. 

Now it occurred to him, for the first time, that if it 
were not a mere bluff on Leila's part, this sudden coquet- 
ting with the question of divorce might indicate an 
ulterior object. Was Leila considering liis elimination 
in view of this ulterior object.? Was there an ulterior 
gentleman somewhere prepared to replace him.? If so, 
where? And who.? 

His wife's possible indiscretions had never interested 
him; he simply didn't care — had no curiosity, as long 
as appearances were maintained. And she had preserved 
appearances with a skill which required all the indifferent 
and easy charity of their set to pretend completely de- 
ceived everybody. Yes, he gave her credit for that ; she 
had been clever. Nobody outside of the social register 
knew the true state of affairs in the house of Leroy 
Mortimer — which, after all, was all anybody cared 
about. 

And so, immersed in the details of his dirty little 
drama, he pondered over the possibility of an ulterior 
gentleman as he moved heavily to and fro, dressing himself — his neuralgia being much better — and presently 
descended the stairs to find everybody absent, engaged, 
as a servant explained, in a game of water basket-ball in 
the swimming pool. So he strolled off toward the north 
wing of the house, which had been built for the squash- 
courts and swimming pool. 

There was a good deal of an uproar in the big 
gymnasium as Mortimer walked in, threading his way 
through the palms and orange-trees ; much splashing in 
the pool, cries and stifled laughter, and the quick rattle 
of applause from the gallery of the squash-courts. 

The Page boys and Rena and Eileen on one side 




 

were playing the last match game against Sylvia, 
Marion Page, Siward, and Ferrall on the other; the 
big, slippery, glistening ball was flying about through 
storms of spray. Marion caught it, but her brother 
Gordon got it away ; then Ferrall secured it and dived 
toward the red goal; but Rena Bonnesdel caught him 
under water; the ball bobbed up, and Sylvia flung both 
arms around it with a little warning shout and hurled it 
back at Siward, who shot forward like an arrow, his opponents gathering about him in full cry, amid laughter 
and excited applause from the gallery, where Grace 
Ferrall and Captain Voucher were wildly off'ering odds 
on the blue, and Alderdene and Major Belwether were 
thriftily booking them. 

Mortimer climbed the slippery, marble stairway as 
fast as his lack of breath permitted, anxious for his 
share of the harvest if the odds were right. He ignored 
his wife's smilingly ironical offer, seeing no sense in 
bothering about money already inside the family ; but 
he managed to make several apparently desirable wagers 
with Katharyn Tassel and one with Beverly Plank, who 
was also obstinately backing the blues, the losing side. 
Sylvia played forward for the blues. 

Agatha Caithness, sleeves rolled up, tall and slim 
and strangely pale in her white flannels, came from the 
squash-court with Quarrier to watch the finish ; and Mor- 
timer observed her sidewise, blinking, irresolute, for he 
had never understood her and was always a trifle afraid 
of her. A pair of icicles, she and Quarrier, with whom 
he had never been on betting terms ; so he made no sug- 
gestions in that direction, and presently became absorbed 
in the splashing battle below. Indeed, such a dashing 
of foam and showering of spray was taking place that 
the fronds of the big palms hung dripping amid drenched 









blossoms overweighted and prone on the wet marble edges 
of the pool. 

Suddenly, through the confused blur of foam and 
spray, the big, glistening ball shot aloft and remained. 

" Blue ! Blue ! " exclaimed Grace Ferrall, clapping 
her hands ; and a httle whirlwind of cries and hand clapping echoed from the gallery as the breathless swimmers 
came climbing out of the pool, with scarcely wind enough 
left for a word or strength for a gesture toward the 
laughing crowd above. 

Mortimer, disgusted, turned away, already casting 
about him for somebody to play cards with — it being his 
temperament and his temper to throw good money after 
bad. But Quarrier and Miss Caithness had already returned to the squash-courts, the majority of the swim- 
mers to their several dressing-rooms, and Grace Ferrall's 
party, equipped for motoring, to the lawn, where they 
lost little time in disappearing into the golden haze 
which a sudden shift of wind had spun out of the cloud- 
less afternoon's sunshine. 

However, he got Marion, and also, as usual, the two 
men who had made a practice of taking away his money 
— Major Belwether and Lord Alderdene. He hadn't 
particularly wanted them ; he wanted somebody he could 
play with, like Siward, for example, or even the two 
ten-dollar Pages; not that their combined twenty would 
do him much good, but it would at least permit him the 
pleasures of the card-table without personal loss. 

But the Pages had retired to dress, and Voucher was 
for motoring, and he had no use for his wife, and he 
was afraid of Plank's game, and Siward, seated on the 
edge of the pool and sharing a pint of ginger-ale with 
Sylvia Landis, shook his head at the suggestion and re- 
sumed his division of the ginger-ale. 




 

Plank and Leila Mortimer came down to congratu- 
late them. Sylvia, always instinctively and particularly 
nice to people of Plank's sort whom she occasionally en- 
countered, was so faultlessly amiable, that Plank, who 
