mother and Aunt Ruth ever want to see you 
again, they must come, too.” 
It was n’t a palace exactly, but a delightful 
home, and Cousin Robert insisted upon their 
sharing it with him, as he was all alone in the 
world. Mrs. Alston grew young and rosy 
again when relieved from the necessity of con- 
stant toil, and Aunt Ruth, always sweet and 
patient, enjoyed many things in the new life. 
But Kathie gave a wonderful charm to the 
household. She did not forget the lessons she 
had learned in adversity, and I think she 
proved a fairy to many outside of her home 
circle. Rob and Fred always thought her the 
dearest little body in the world. 
IT had come to be pretty hard lines with 
us, you see. The gov’ner had never 
held up his head, so to speak, since the 
accident on his train. He had been 
switch-tender at North Lumberton Junction 
for years and years, and I do say he was n’t to 
blame for the accident then; but big ’uns 
always do crowd out little ’uns. The way it 
was — there was an extry, you see, going up, 
a ’xcursion train, and no one had telegraphed 
a sound. The reg’lar train had gone up, the 
down was coming in about ten minutes. Gov- 
’ner went out and fixed the switch, and stood 
there with the flag in his hand looking up, 
when something come a thundering along 
right back of him. 
“‘Switch right?” sung out some one. 
“Gov’ner jumped and was blind confused. 
The train ran right off and smashed into a lot 
of coal cars standing there. It was a mercy 
he was n’t killed. 
‘‘ I would n’t so much minded bein’ killed at 
my post, like that chap you was readin’ about 
t’ other day,’ he said to me, privately after- 
ward. ‘But if I had been killed, I never 
could a’ told the truth ’bout myself, though 
nobody ’ll ever write verses ’bout me.’ 
“If I ’d had a gift that way, and known any 
newspaper man, I ’d a done it myself. 
“ ’T was n’t so bad as it might ha’ been. 
Smoking car was about empty, engineer give 
a spring, but, my! did n’t they go to flinders! 
Four killed, and lots of ’em hurt, and there was 
an awful time ! There was an inquest and tes- 
timony ’bout everything. The real truth was 
— telegram was n’t quite soon enough ; but the 
railroad people would n’t allow that. They 
compared watches and wrangled and talked, 
and smoothed matters over for everybody but 
the gov’ner, and he was marched off to jail. 
“Poor Mammy almost broke her heart. She 
was the gov’ner’s second wife. He had some 
sons, I 've heard him say, who_were well-to-do 
men, but they ’d forgot all about him. 
Mammy ’d had three children — Jack, who was 
“ ‘ Went out and fixed the switch ’ ” 
off at sea ; Kitty, who 'd met with an accident 
and was lame ; and me. My name ’s Benjamin 
Franklin Hewes, but for short they always 
call me Ben. Mammy used to read to me on 
Sundays ’bout Joseph an’ his brethren, and 
how the old gov’ner loved Benjamin, and they 
 
found the king’s cup in his sack o’ corn. But 
he come out all right in the end, and I know it 
give Mammy a good deal of faith ’bout me. 
“Well, my gov’ner had a hard time of it. A 
man come and told Mammy that it would be 
better for him to stay in jail awhile till folks 
forgot; so they kept putting off his trial, and 
bime-by they sort o’ let him go with a lecture, 
but it riled the old man awfully. It was the 
dead of winter, and he could n’t do anything 
more at North Lumberton, because, you see, it 
was n’t made plain, and all hands thought him 
to blame. 
“So we come to the city. We managed 
through the summer, but in the fall the gov- 
’ner was taken to his bed. Mother and Kitty 
sewed, but there was n’t much made by that, 
and I was on the lookout for all the odd jobs 
I could find. When a chap begins to go down 
hill seems as if ’t was always freezin’ weather 
and slippery, an’ he slides and slides with 
nothing to catch hold of, till he gets away 
down to the bottom. I see some good chances 
to get established if I ’d had five dollars or so, 
but I never did. And them that ’s regular and 
fortunate sometimes forget how it was with 
themselves in the beginning. 
‘‘Just after Thanksgiving the chap at Mam- 
my’s shop busted. He was owing her five dol- 
lars, and the loss come mighty hard. There 
would n’t be anything more for weeks and 
weeks, for ’t was a dull winter, and people 
began to talk about soup-houses then. 
“ ‘Maybe I might get a few days’ washing,’ 
said Mammy. ‘I ’ll speak to the neighbors 
’round.’ 
“ ‘I don’t know what we are going to do,’ 
put in Kitty. 
“She was a kind of pretty little thing, with 
big brown eyes and yellow hair that curled in 
a slow way and somehow looked like her pale 
face, not being crisp and kinky like some curly 
hair. Now and then I ’ve seen just such a pic- 
ture in a window, with a hungry look about it 
 
as if the poor soul wanted something that 
was n’t meat nor drink. She kept a hankering 
after the little garden we had at Junction, and 
the green fields all about. But it seemed to me 
that she looked peekeder than ever now. 
“I remember, just as if it was yesterday, 
’bout that Sunday before Christmas. I ’d had 
a streak of luck Sat’day night selling in the 
market. 
‘‘ *There ’s the rent,’ says Mammy, when I 
come home. *We must n’t touch a cent of it 
this week, so as to be sure.’ 
“It was cold and stormy on Sunday. I went 
down to the mission-school after dinner, and 
most of the talk was ’bout Christmas, and the 
Lord being born in a manger, and how poor 
and humble he was; and how that every one 
ought to do some good deed at Christmas, if 
never any other time ; and how the Lord took 
these things as sort of birthday gifts to him- 
self, and remembered every one, no matter 
how small it was. I ’d often thought I ’d like 
to be rich and send poor people tons of coal, 
and blankets, and a turkey perhaps, or some- 
thing good; but I knew I never should be. 
“I was telling them all about it in the even- 
ing, and then Kitty and me began to look over 
the pictures in Mammy’s big Bible, that was — 
I don’t know how old. We stopped at ‘Joseph 
being sold by his brethren,’ and Kitty read 
the story over again, and how Joseph forgave 
them when he came to be a great king, and 
brought his father to Egypt so ’s he might n’t 
starve to death. 
“The gov’ner was a layin’ on his bed, and he 
gave a great sigh. 
“ ‘They don’t do so nowadays,’ he said. 
‘They go off and forget. I ’ve three likely sons 
out in the new countries, with flocks, an’ 
herds, an’ wives, an’ children, but it ’s many a 
long year since any of ’em has asked if I was 
alive. An’ I s’pose bime-by Jack will be like 
’em.’ 
“ ‘But Ben won’t,’ said Kitty, softly. ‘He 
will be like this one; won’t you, Ben?’ 
“'You may bet your life on that/ says I. 
'Gov’ner, you cheer up a bit. I 've got a good 
name, and I won’t go back on it. Maybe I ’ll 
see an opening ’tween this and spring, and 
you ’ll come out like a lark some warm day. 
Somehow it seems to me as if this Christmas 
was going to do something for us.’ 
“ 'O,’ said Kitty, with a great glow in her 
eyes, 'if there only was a real Santa Claus ! Or 
if we could have three wishes!’ 
''And then we planned what we would wish 
for, and afterward Mammy asked us to sing. 
Kitty knew some carols, she was a master 
hand to remember, and the gov’ner said he 
did n’t believe it was much better out on the 
plains of Judee where the shepherds kept 
watch. But it was, you know, though it was 
just as well for him to think he had some of 
the very best. 
''On Tuesday, it was, I see one of them 
lucky chances for a little speculation, and I run 
home to Mammy for a few dollars. 
“ ‘O, Ben," she said, ‘I 've just paid it away. 
Mr. McCann came in this morning and asked 
if I had the rent handy. He wanted to use 
some money, and was hard up.’ 
‘It ’s a mean shame !’ and I was mad as a 
hen in a brush fence. ‘He could n’t collect it 
anyhow until the first, and here it ’s only the 
23d. And if I only had two dollars I know I 
could double it to-day and again to-morrow.’ 
“ ‘I ’m so sorry, Ben. But then you might 
a’ lost it, and we ’ve a roof over our heads for 
all January.’ 
“ ‘Well, it can’t be helped,’ and I started off 
again. There was another fellow standing by 
to take the chance. What could I do? The 
ground was frozen up as dry as a chip, and 
there was no boots to black except for the 
reg’lars. I put in a ton of coal, and that was 
every living thing I found to do that day. 
“I ’d had my eye on a paper route for ever so 
long, but it did just seem as if I never could 
get money enough together again for any- 
 
thing. And all the streets were looking gay 
and the stores and markets trimmed up with 
evergreens. How jolly every one seemed! 
“Next day luck was dead against me again. 
Seventy-five cents was all I made. Not a 
stiver for Christmas ! I ’d seen so many things 
I wanted to buy Kitty, and I wanted a chicken 
to make some broth for the gov’ner. I began 
to wonder if it was all true what the man said 
on Sunday. Was there a great Lord up in 
heaven who knew all about cold, and hunger, 
and had no place to lay his head, and was at 
last given up to the cruel Jews to be put to 
death? 
“ ‘That ’s a sight worse than you, Ben 
Hewes,’ I said. And then I ran round looking 
at the gay shop-windows, and listening to the 
fun and laughs, and now and then a church 
bell ringing. If Kitty had been strong enough 
to go with me it would have been quite a little 
Christmas feast. But it was a awful cold 
night. I had an armful of evergreens, for you 
see I did n’t dare spend any of my money 
buying Christmas. I was turning round a cor- 
ner when I saw something huddled up on the 
step like a great dog. If I was rich I should 
have some dogs, I do like ’em so. I went to 
pat the shaggy fellow, but when I put out my 
hand I found it was n’t a dog at all. 
‘‘ ‘Lemme be,’ said the little kid, jerking 
away. ‘I ’m nice and warm in this corner, and 
I was ’most asleep.’ 
“ ‘But you ’ll freeze here,’ I said. ‘You had 
better go to the station-house.’ 
“ ‘No,’ and he began to cry. ‘I run away 
from a peeler. I don’t want to go to the Island. 
I want to get up to the heaven where Betty ’s 
gone, and where the good Lord takes care of 
little boys like me. I have n’t had a mouthful 
all day ’cept the good smell over there, and the 
man kicked me away. Does it take long to 
freeze?’ 
“‘Why, Jemmy Arno, is it you?’ and I 
dragged him out to the light. Sure enough! 
 
And his teeth were chattering as if they ’d 
been strung on wires. 
“The little kid did n’t know me. He blinked 
out of his great black eyes, and then began to 
whimper. I knew where he had lived, and 
this Betty Arno used to keep a peanut stand. 
“ Is Betty dead?’ says I. 
“‘Yes; and the woman turned me out o’ 
doors, and would n’t let me take the box Betty 
gave me. O, dear! I ’m so cold — so cold.’ 
“I thought of what the man said at the mis- 
sion-school. Maybe this was my Christmas! 
If doing for such a little chap was just the same 
as doing for the great Lord, and if He ’d say 
at the last, ‘Ben Hewes, I saw you that Christ- 
mas Eve, when you was too poor to send gifts 
to anybody, taking that half-starved little 
shaver in out of the cold, and I put it down in 
my ’count, and it ’s just as good as a rich man’s 
deed.’ So says I, ‘Come along. Jemmy. I ’ll 
give you a nice warm corner to sleep in, and a 
mouthful of supper. It ’s Christmas Eve, you 
know. Trot up brisk now.’ 
‘‘The poor little chap was crying and talking 
all in one breath, and wanting to sit down on 
every stoop, but I kept him up. ‘Here we are,* 
says I, opening the door. 
“ ‘O Ben, what has kept you so late?* cries 
Kitty; and then in the next breath, ‘What a 
splendid lot of greens.’ 
“ ‘And something else,* says I. ‘Santa 
Claus.’ 
“ ‘Why, Ben !* says Mammy. ‘Where did 
you pick up this poor thing?* 
“ ‘O don’t send me to the station-house nor 
the Island,* cries he, looking frightened out of 
his great eyes. ‘I never stole anything, nor 
sweared, and I *m so cold. O, is it nice and 
warm in heaven? Betty said it was.* 
“ ‘Come to the fire, poor creetur,* says 
Mammy. 
“I told her ’bout Betty Arno and her peanut- 
stand, and how that I had n’t seen her for as 
much as a month, and Jemmy said she was 
dead. And then how I had found him this bit- 
ter cold night, and I wanted to keep him, just 
as if it had been the great Lord. 
“ *And we ’ll have some Christmas after all,’ 
says Kitty, ‘only not like rich folks.’ 
“Mammy was afraid he was froze, so I 
brought in some snow and rubbed his ears, 
and nose, and his hands. Then Mammy 
washed him and set him by the stove to warm 
and dry, and give him a little broth first. My 
eyes! was n’t the kid hungry! If he ’d staid 
out in the cold all night I guess he ’d found a 
short road to heaven sure. 
“ ‘Maybe ’t would a’ been better,’ said 
Mammy. ‘Poor little lambs! I like to think 
God is glad to have them. But we ’ll do the 
best we can, now. Y ou must run out and buy 
us a little dinner for to-morrow, Ben. A bit 
of beef to stew, I guess, and a few potatoes.’ 
“I went down to the butcher’s. He was hard 
run just then, and asked me to take out a 
basket to a customer, and afterward another. 
I picked out what I wanted and he weighed it. 
‘Thirty-five cents/ says he, ‘but if you ’d like 
to change, Ben, I ’ll let you have this chicken. 
The skin ’s broken and it does n’t look quite so 
fair; but it ’s fresh, and a nice plump fellow. 
Call it square for the errands.’ 
“ ‘Thank ’ee,’ says I, ‘and a merry Christ- 
mas in the bargain.’ 
“ ‘Lots of ’em to you, Ben.’ 
“I run off home glad enough, I tell you, 
feeling like a morning star. 
“ ‘Hooray,’ says I, opening the door. ‘Christ- 
mas is begun and no mistake. What do you 
think of that.’ 
“The gov’ner was as pleased as a baby, and 
Mammy laughed with tears in her eyes. Then 
Kitty and I sung some rousing carols. The 
little chap was sound asleep. 
“The baker sent Kitty a cake next day ; and 
altogether it was n’t so bad a Christmas, only 
the little kid, he grew sicker ’n sicker. Gov- 
’ner said we ought to send him to the hospital ; 
but somehow Kitty she took a wonderful fancy 
to him, and Mammy was a master hand at 
nursing. Then, too, during the next week I 
had a streak of luck, and made five dollars, and 
Mammy had a pile of sewing to do for a 
neighbor. 
‘‘ ‘Seems as though the little thing had 
brought us good fortune,’ Kitty said, with a 
bright smile. ‘O, Ben, you ought to hear the 
wonderful things he talks of when the fever ’s 
on him. Gardens, and flowers, and birds, and 
a beautiful house and a papa. Was Betty Amo 
his grandmother, really?’ 
“ T s’pose so,’ I said. ‘He was always a nice 
little chap and did n’t play much with the 
street cubs. P’raps he will tell us all about it 
when he gets well.’ 
“Mammy managed to get the fever broke in 
about two weeks, but he was as weak as a 
baby. He ’d lie there on two chairs, listening to 
Kitty as she sung, and begging her to tell him 
stories. Gov’ner took a queer liking to him as 
well. We did n’t call him anything but Santa 
Claus. One day Kitty told him what he talked 
about when he was sick. 
‘‘ ‘It ’s all true," he said. ‘I used to live in 
the house, my Mammy and I, and she had 
pretty light curls like Kitty, and oh, such beau- 
tiful blue eyes. She used to wear silk dresses 
and had a gold watch and rings, and papa used 
to come and give her heaps of money. But one 
day Mammy took me and went away, and we 
never went back to the splendid house, and 
 
papa did not come any more. She just grew 
whiter and whiter, and when old Betty come 
she went to heaven and left me with granny. 
And that ’s a long, long while ago, when I was 
a little boy.’ 
‘‘Mammy shook her head. ‘I dare say 
there ’s been some sorry work about it. 
There ’s a many sad things in this world.’ 
“ ‘Don’t you believe it ’s true?’ 
“ ‘It ’s true enough,’ said Mammy, with a 
sigh. 
“Times began to get pretty hard with us 
again. Feb’uary was cornin’ on and no rent. 
’T was always paid in advance, you see, or 
else you had to march. Old McCann came in 
and made a row. ‘If you don’t have it to-mor- 
row at twelve, out you go,’ says he. ‘Y ou can 
borrow it of some friend, I know.’ 
“We had a little bread and ’lasses for sup- 
per that night. I made believe I was n’t a bit 
hungry, and kept feeding the little kid, ’cause 
I did n’t know what would happen to him or 
any of us to-morrow. You see, not being 
brought up in the city, I was n’t used to all 
the dodges and ways of getting along. 
‘‘ ‘Well, you took him in and give him a 
good Christmas,’ says Kitty, ‘and we won’t be 
sorry, for he did bring us a little luck. Only 
I can’t bear to think of turning him out again.’ 
“Just then there was a knock at the door. 
I opened it, and two men stood there. 
“‘Is little Jemmy Arno here?’ says one of 
’em. 
“With that he run and hid his head in 
Mammy’s lap. 
“ ‘Oh,’ he screamed, ‘it ’s a peeler; don’t let 
him take me! I won’t go to the Island; I ’ll 
run away and drown.’ 
“ ‘We don’t want anybody to go to the 
Island,’ said the p’liceman. ‘Tell the truth, for 
it ’s all good news, little cove. You ’re about 
the luckiest chap I ever heard tell of.’ 
“ ‘Is this the boy?’ and the other man picked 
Jem up in his arms and turned him to the light. 
‘Oh,’ he says in a kind o’ cryin’ tone, ‘I should 
know them eyes anywhere. My good woman, 
I never can repay you for shelterin’ this little 
boy. He ’s my grandson.’ 
“With that the gov’ner came out and 
dropped in a chair. 
“ ‘Somehow,’ says he, ‘he never seemed like 
a common child. But we must know the truth 
and your claim before you take him away from 
here.’ 
“I declare I was so proud of the gov’ner for 
that speech that I could have cheered. 
“They sat down and talked. I don’t know ’s 
I 've got that story straight in my head to this 
day, but ’t was something like this: The old 
gent’s son married a pretty actress, who was 
Betty Arno’s daughter, but he kept mighty 
still about it to his folks. Somehow after 
awhile they quarrelled, and he told her she 
was n’t his wife. With that she run away, 
taking her little kid, and when she was ’most a 
dying she sent for her mother, old Betty, and 
told her the story, and gave Jem to her, and a 
box of papers. That was more ’n two years 
before. And now Jem’s father was dead, and 
there ’d come a great fortune for him and his 
heirs, which was little Jem here. They ’d 
found where Betty died, and they ’d taken the 
box from the woman who turned Jem out of 
doors, and found letters and a ’stificate which 
proved all about him. And now for a month 
they ’d been hunting up Jem. Mammy ’d told 
a neighbor about my bringing of him home 
a’most starved and frozen, and how sick he ’d 
been, and she happened to see the stir about it 
in a paper, with a reward offered, so she went 
and told the old gent the news. 
“ ‘Jem,’ says he, T ’m your grandfather. 
Your poor papa died a loving you, and sorry 
enough that he ’d ever been so cruel. And 
now you must come home with me, and I ’ll 
try to bring you up to be a good man, and you 
must love me in my old days.’ 
‘‘ ‘Ah,’ says the gov’ner, ‘they don’t always 
do that, unless they ’re like Ben here. I 've 
three likely sons that I have n’t heard from in 
ten years, or more.’ 
‘‘So the old gent thanked Mammy again and 
again, and said so much to me that I was red 
as a beet in the face. But, would you believe, 
the little kid would n’t stir a step with them 
without Kitty, and . Mammy begged ’em to 
wait until to-morrow. 
“Well, they went away after awhile, and we 
talked and cried, even to the gov’ner, who was 
quite knocked up about it. Jem seemed to 
care the least of any one, but then he did n’t 
understand all ’t was goin’ to be to him. 
“But was n’t there a jolly lark the next 
morning ! Old McCann was there ordering us 
out of the house, just as the carriage stopped. 
You should a’ seen his face then. It was as 
good as a picture by Nast. He cooled down 
quicker ’n ’lasses candy in a heap of snow. The 
old gent paid the rent, and told him we did n’t 
want the place any more; and, sure enough, 
before twelve that day we went out, bag and 
baggage, which was n’t saying much, after all. 
“Well, the upshot of it all is I ’ve got about 
as nice a paper stand as you ’d want to see. 
We keep pens, and writing-paper, and notions, 
and I ’ve a morning route. I ’m first president 
and the gov’ner ’s cashier, an’ you never saw 
a prouder man. We have three rooms back of 
the store, and Mammy keeps house there like 
a queen. 
“Kitty is living with Mr. Walsingham and 
Jemmy, ’though his real name is Eugene. 
They would n’t give her up. You see the old 
gent felt as if we had saved Jemmy’s life, and I 
do suppose the little kid would a’ froze to 
death that night if I had n’t taken him home. 
So he felt as if he could n’t do enough for us, 
but the gov’ner and I — we ’ve got our pride, 
too. 
“Kitty lives like a princess in a palace. She 
takes care of Jem’s clothes, and dusts up the 
parlors, and is studying music, for they all 
 
think she has a stunning voice. She conies to 
see us in a carriage, and though the gov’ner 
laughs, I see him wipe his eyes with his coat- 
sleeve, as though there was a little something 
besides fun in it. 
‘‘You better believe that I put faith in Santa 
Claus and Christmas ! Why, the year could n’t 
keep house without them. The gov’ner and I 
hang up our stockings, and get ’em full, too. 
It ’s curi’s, but always on Christmas Eve I 
take a little run round just after dark, and look 
on store steps, and in dry goods boxes, and 
sometimes I find a little chap cold and hungry, 
and I make believe for a moment that I ’m 
Santa Claus. It ’s just jolly, I tell you! And 
when the stars shine out I think of the plain of 
Judee, and the shepherds hearing the great 
song that all the world goes on singing, so that 
it can never be quite forgotten. And so Merry 
Christmas to everybody from Ben Hewes.” 
A SPLENDID long holiday!” Grace 
Howard exclaimed, rushing across 
the porch, fairly out of breath. 
‘‘Some important business calls Miss 
Johnson away to-morrow, and we girls have 
been planning such a nice time. Jennie Carl- 
ton has asked us to her house to dinner, and 
then we are going to the woods on a picnic.’’ 
“I thought you did n’t like Jennie Carlton 
very well,” Mrs. Howard rejoined. 
Grace colored. There was a sort of chronic 
difference between the two. 
“I don’t like her as well as some of the girls, 
but we have made up good friends. And when 
she asked me — it ’s to be quite a select party,” 
and Grace put a peculiar emphasis upon the 
word. 
“That is what I object to the most. If all 
 
the school-girls were going to the woods, I 
should expect you to have a pleasant time. 
But choosing some six or eight because their 
parents are wealthy seems too exclusive for 
such an occasion. I do not feel at all compli- 
mented by having you invited.” 
‘‘But I do want to go. My holiday will be 
just spoiled if I have to stay at home;” and 
Grace’s pretty face looked ready for tears. 
“Perhaps you might decide upon some bet- 
ter way of spending it,” replied her mother. 
“I am going to drive to Aunt Ellen’s in the 
afternoon, and had thought of taking you. 
Mrs. Dean was over here this morning, and 
said that Alice was wishing very much to see 
you. She seems to be failing, her mother 
fancies. Half a day would finish your book, 
would n’t it?” 
“I ’ll do that positively on Saturday,” Grace 
said; “or I might go a little while on Friday 
afternoon. O dear! I shall be glad when it is 
through.” 
“ ‘ I thought you did n’t like Jennie Carlton ’ ” 
‘‘You know it was your own desire,” Mrs. 
Howard rejoined. “And it has been such a 
pleasure to Alice.” 
Grace twisted the fringe of the table-cover 
with a misgiving that she was not in a very 
amiable frame of mind. A day or two surely 
would n’t make any difference to Alice Dean, 
but to give up a whole day’s pleasure for that ! 
Grace Howard had a good many generous 
impulses, but, one way and another, her under- 
takings often failed before reaching comple- 
tion. She had received for her birthday pres- 
ent a handsome set of story-books, in which 
she had been wonderfully interested, and pro- 
posed to read them aloud to blind Alice Dean, 
who was an invalid besides. Mrs. Dean had to 
work hard to support herself and child, and 
'-found but little time to devote to her amuse- 
ment. Grace’s clear, sweet voice gave them a 
keener charm to the sensitive child. At first 
she had done very well, it must be confessed, 
but the last book dragged along, when Grace 
began to think it almost a burthen. 
‘‘Can’t I go?” she asked presently. “I shall 
be so disappointed.” 
“I believe your days with Jennie Carlton 
have always been failures ; still I will not com- 
pel you to give up this one. Think it over 
before you decide.” 
Grace’s face brightened immediately, which 
showed that there was to be very little consid- 
eration. Just now she was intent upon her 
own pleasure. Jennie had urged her strongly, 
and somehow Grace always felt flattered by 
Jennie Carlton’s notice. They lived in a grand 
house, and Jennie held herself above most of 
the school-girls. Mr. Carlton and Mr. Howard 
being very warm personal friends, Mrs. How- 
ard had found it impossible to regulate the 
intercourse of the children without giving 
offence, and Mr. Howard indulged his little 
girl in almost every whim. But it frequently 
happened that Grace was hardly upon speak- 
ing terms with Jennie, for the latter gave her 
an occasional rebuff that was not easy to bear. 
Grace thought of nothing but the pleasure 
now. She was all impatience for the hour to 
come, and set off to Jennie’s in high spirits. 
 
The woods were on Mr. Carlton’s place, about 
half a mile from the house, and there could be 
no possible danger to the party. 
‘T hope you will have a nice day,” Mrs. 
Howard said, kissing her. “And when 
you return from the woods, come home 
immediately.” 
Grace promised. As she walked across the 
lawn to Mr. Carlton’s, she saw two strange 
figures in the little group — a girl, taller than 
Jennie, and a boy older still. And then she 
looked at her printed cambric in dismay. Jen- 
nie wore her braided pique and an elegant 
sash, while she had on an ordinary school- 
dress. The young lady stared at her supercil- 
iously; and when Jennie introduced her as her 
cousin, Grace remembered having seen her at 
church once. They had just arrived an hour 
or so ago. For a moment Grace felt half 
inclined to excuse herself and return home. 
The drive with her mother would be pleasant, 
and it was always nice at Aunt Ellen’s. But 
she felt a little ashamed to confess her mistake 
so soon. 
The rest of the girls came presently. They 
all laughed and talked, went to Jennie’s play- 
room, and looked over the dolls and books and 
curious toys, and then Mrs. Carlton summoned 
them to lunch. After that began the prepara- 
tion for going to the woods. Mrs. Carlton 
told them she thought they had better stay 
around the house and amuse themselves by 
playing croquet and other games ; but Jennie’s 
cousin Horace whispered to her that he 
thought it a bore. 
They started off presently, with a servant 
to carry some luggage for them. It was a 
warm walk to the woods, but, once there, they 
found it cool and shady. They amused them- 
selves awhile with play, and then Horace won- 
dered if they could n’t find something better 
to do. 
“Where ’s uncle’s boat?” he asked. “I might 
give you all a sail.” 
“O splendid!” exclaimed Jennie. “Let us 
go down to the river;” and she and Horace 
headed the party. “What are you lagging for, 
Grace Howard?” 
“I think we ought not,” Grace said with 
sudden courage. “Mamma would n’t like it.” 
“What a baby! You had better go back if 
you are afraid.” 
“Pooh!” said two or three of the others, 
and Grace’s resolution wavered. They kept 
on, and she followed slowly. Jennie began 
to show her vexation, for she could not endure 
that any one should interfere with her plans. 
Presently they reached the river’s edge. All 
this time Grace had been debating within her- 
self. She had been positively forbidden to go 
upon the river ; but how lovely it looked in the 
shimmering light! Spikes of crimson cardinal 
flowers lined the shore, and farther down there 
were clusters of lilies. She need not tell, and 
perhaps her parents would never hear. 
“Well, Miss Tender-Conscience,” began 
Jennie mockingly, “what shall you do?” 
Grace flushed redly. 
“You ’re a little marplot in everything; put- 
ting on airs as if you were better than other 
people. I ’m sorry I asked you; I ’ll never 
invite you anywhere again.” 
That made Grace angry, and she answered 
back. One or two of the girls would have 
taken her part, but they were restrained by 
their girlish admiration of Jennie; so poor 
Grace had to fight her battle alone; but that 
gave her the bravery she needed. She turned 
proudly away. 
“Let her go,” said Horace. “What ’s the 
use of making such a row?” 
Alone by herself, Grace began to weep pas- 
sionately, and declare, as she had several 
times before, that she never would go any- 
where again with Jennie. She sat down under 
a tree, feeling utterly miserable. Her day was 
a failure. Not an hour of it had been real 
happy. If she had taken her mother’s advice ! 
Would it be too late to go and read to Alice? 
 
— then her day would not be entirely wasted. 
A gay laugh floated from the river, and for 
half a moment she wished herself with the 
girls. 
“It is best and right,” she said reluctantly, 
and began to find her way out of the wood. 
It was a long walk to Mrs. Dean’s cottage. 
She was warm and tired when she reached the 
place, and still nervous from her recent dis- 
pute. But Alice recognized the voice, and 
held out her thin white hand. 
“I ’m so glad you have come!” and a little 
flush brightened her face. 
Grace did not feel much like talking, so she 
found her book and began to read, growing 
more tranquil with the effort. Presently her 
old interest in the story returned, and she went 
on until Mrs. Dean began to set the supper- 
table. 
“You must have a cup of tea with Alice,” 
Mrs. Dean said. “I don’t believe your mamma 
will be displeased.” 
“ ‘ It is best and right, ’ she said 
Alice was delighted to be propped up in her 
easy-chair by the table. The two girls had a 
nice, cosy time, as delightful as the supper in 
“Grace began to read” 
the woods, Grace thought. But Alice was very 
tired afterward. 
‘‘Perhaps I had better not finish,’' Grace 
said, glancing at the book. 
 
“Oh! do, please, I am so interested!” and 
Grace read on to the last word. 
“I don’t know how I can ever thank you. 
It has been such a pleasure to hear them all. 
And Gracie, if you would only sing 'Glory to 
Thee, my God.’ Is it too late?” 
Grace sat on the edge of the bed and sang in 
her sweet voice, which was calm ‘and musical 
enough now. Alice held her hand all the 
while. 
“Oh!” she said, “what a lovely afternoon it 
has been ! How good you are, Grace !” 
“Not very,” said Grace soberly, for yester- 
day she had thought this work of love a hard- 
ship. “I wish I could be real good.” 
Alice kissed her tenderly, and made her 
promise to come soon again. 
It was dusk when Grace reached home. 
Mamma returned soon after; and, at the first 
glimpse of her daughter’s face, asked tenderly 
if she had enjoyed herself all day. 
“Come, sit down and let me talk to you, 
Mamma. I did n’t have the pleasure I 
expected, but I had something better after- 
ward. It ’s quite a story, and I think you are 
 
right about Jennie Carlton. She is proud and 
selfish and disagreeable.” 
‘‘I don’t say that. There may be some fault 
in you as well.” 
get angry easily, and then Jennie calls 
me spitfire. And I was n’t good to-day, only I 
did obey you in one thing.” So Grace told her 
story. 
‘‘My darling, how thankful I am that you 
had the courage to do right;” and Mrs. How- 
ard drew her daughter closer to her heart. 
“Don’t praise me. Mamma. Perhaps, if Jen- 
nie had been sweet and pleasant, I might have 
been tempted to go. But I am so glad I read 
to Alice! O Mamma! your plan for the day 
was better than mine. I wish I could always 
think so in the beginning.” 
“We all gain a good deal of our wisdom by 
experience, my little girl; but now you must 
go to bed, for I think you have had enough 
excitement for one day.” 
It was quite late when Grace came down the 
next morning. “Ah! honey,” said Bridget, 
“you may be glad you did n’t go sailing with 
the girls. They were upset, and Miss Jennie 
came near getting drowned.” 
Some one stood on the porch; it was Mrs. 
Dean’s nearest neighbor, and Grace ran out 
to ask after Alice. 
“She ’s up in heaven. Miss,” answered the 
woman solemnly. “She died in the night, as 
peaceful as she always lived. If ever there 
was an angel, she is one.” 
“O Mamma !” said Grace, with her eyes full 
of tears, “it is better to make others happy 
than to be thinking only of one’s self. I am 
so glad now !” 
And when she looked on Alice Dean’s still 
