hotels. I have taught school, and tutored 
students, and reviewed books, and written leaders, 
and been a writing master, and given — God for- 
give me — lessons on the violin. By dint of some 
ingenuity, and a fund of excellent health, I have 
put myself through the medical school of our 
powerful and arrogant university; and have got 
in a few years of hospital and some other work 
before I quartered myself upon the helpless 
inhabitants of this afflicted village. They can't 
object to it more than I do. If my mother hadn't 
said that pathetic thing about my Uncle Clay, I 
shouldn't be doing it. But I am. 

Miss Sterling, I am as poor as your coachman. 
And I am likely to continue in that state into 
which it has pleased Providence to call me, for 
God knows how long. But there is no stain upon 
my character, nor upon my life. If there were, you 
know as well as I do — or I dare believe you know 
— that I should not be writing this letter to you. 

Miss Sterling, I am not of your class. I am not 
of your condition. I am not of anything that you 
have been trained to understand or to feel an 
interest in. I do not know whether I am even a gen- 
tleman, by the standards to which you have been 
taught to defer. I only know that I have that to 
say to you to which I should prefer that you 
listened — if you were so gracious to me as to listen 
at all — after, not before, I have acquainted you 
with these facts. So here they are. And I dare 
write myself, in spite of them, 

Your faithful and devoted friend, 

Chanceford Dane. 

Dane sent this letter off desperately, without 
giving himself time to repent of or recall it ; and 
tried to cajole himself all day, because he had 
done it ; and cursed himself all night, and wished 
he hadn't. 

The next day he went about his business wretch- 
edly, and played truant with his office hours, and 
was cross to his patients, for he had not the best 
of tempers. He had a quarrel with Solomon Hops 
(which Nannie made up for them) on the untimely 
topic of personally conducted rheumatism, and so 
got himself out of the chocolate eclair house 
fretfully, and drove about the village all the morning, 
dividing the time between real and imaginary 
patients, and running in to his office now and then 
to see if any reply to his letter had been sent. 
None had. He knew better than to expect any. 

 

Yet he kept on darting in to see, and driving off 
again. On the last of these erratic appearances, 
Nannie asked him, if he met Timothy George, 
would he be so kind as to say — something; he 
forgot what as soon as he had gone. But with the 
mission on his conscience, towards noon he drove 
down the road that ran by the wharf, the boat- 
house, and the caterer's stable. It was a rude road, 
hardly more than a cart path, and a sheltered 
spot. George was not there, and his men were at 
their dinner. While Dane sat in his buggy 
watching the water, as people on the shore always do 
when other occupations fail, he heard a cry of dis- 
tress. It was several times repeated before he 
noticed, not more than forty-five feet off the beach, 
an overturned boat, a keel boat, rather a slight 
affair, such as is built for ladies' and children's 
use. At the same moment he perceived a human 
head steadily moving towards the shore. It was 
accompanied by another living object, whose 
nature or relation to the first he could not make out. 
He ran to the boathouse. It was empty. He 
called for help, as one does in such a case, — 
madly and aimlessly, — though he knew perfectly 
well that every man belonging within earshot was 
at dinner. There was nothing else to do but to 
take off his coat and boots and jump in, which he 
did, without hesitation. But the process had taken 

 



the imperceptible moments which count so much 
in emergencies, and before he could overtake the 
swimmers they had almost reached the beach which 
lay between the wharf and the cliffs. It was a 
little beach, a mouthful bitten out of the rocks, but 
the surf was dashing vigorously on it. For several 
days the wind had pounded from the east, and, in 
fact, it was not " ladies' weather." 

Dane was a sturdy swimmer, and although he 
now perceived that he would prove to be rather 
a comic supernumerary than a serviceable and 
enviable hero, he pushed on obstinately. He had 
approached one of the figures — it seemed to be 
a crimson figure — when a half-drowned growl 
warned him away. 

" Oh, please don't!" 

A woman's voice bubbled up and strangled off. 
Dane uttered a terrible exclamation. A big spurt 
of strength and speed lessened, but did not
annihilate, the distance between himself and the object 
of his chase. His eyes ached in his head from the 
intensity with which they fixed upon that flicker 
of crimson ahead of him. The choicest forgotten 
profanities of his youth leaped to his mind when 
he saw that the collie had the best of it, and 
meant to keep what he had. It was a duel in 
devotion between the dog and the man, and dog 
— as he had the right to — won. He pulled on, 

 

volleying canine oaths, giving language for 
language. Clyde was determined to keep his rival 
off; and he carried out his determination with 
the success which he knew was expected of 
him. 

As soon as she felt the sandy bottom beneath 
her feet, the girl began to laugh. Dane saw two 
crimson arms and little purple hands come up to 
dash the water out of her eyes, as she waded 
heavily to the shore. He was still over his own 
depth, and swimming preposterously. 

" Let go, Clyde ! " she commanded. " Let go, 
dear ! " Clyde's mighty grip loosened, and slipped 
from her shoulder to her knees, tenderly feeling 
its way until he found the hem of her boating 
dress. There he closed his teeth, and with one 
eye on the infuriated swimmer he held on calmly. 
Cara got herself squarely on the beach and stood 
up straight. Dane had by this time struck his 
feet on the sand, and was wading grimly in. He 
felt how he must look. The position was too much 
for him, and he muttered something which was 
not quite clear to the young lady, but it seemed 
perfectly intelligible to the collie. With a roar, 
Clyde released his mistress and dashed into the 
water. Planting his four feet in the sliding sand, 
rigid as an iron dog on a pedestal of steel, up to 
his shoulders in the surf, he stood between the 

 

woman and the man. As Dane waded in, the dog 
lowered his head, and his upper lip began to 
wrinkle. 

" Oh, why don't you come ashore ? " cried Cara, 
sweetly. She did not mean to be as cruel as she 
sounded, and she tried so hard not to laugh that 
Dane's sense of humor deserted him, and he 
exclaimed fervently : — 

" Let me just get hold of that dog ! " 

" He 'll just get hold of you if you don't look 
out," said the girl, without laughing. " Clyde ! 
Clyde! Oh Clyde! come right out of the water 
this minute, sir ! I don't know what ails him. I 
can't do a thing with him. Clyde! He — he doesn't 
seem to mean to — he doesn't seem to want you 
to come ashore — at alC 

" Meanwhile," said Dane, fiercely, " you are 
standing there in this east wind chilled to the 
heart. I 'm coming, anyhow," he observed more 
quietly. " It 's between me and the dog, Miss 
Sterling. Take the consequences ; and take your 
choice!" He waded in, smiling but formidable. 
At that moment he was capable of throttling 
Clyde; and Cara felt it. She stepped back into 
the water, and put her hand on the dog's collar, 
and whispered something in his ear. He followed 
her out through the surf like a cosset on a clover 
field. When she turned, Dane stood beside her. 



THOUGH LIFE US DO PART 

" What was it you whispered to Clyde ? " he 
demanded. 

" Oh, don't you see ? " she cried, with a pretty, 
penitent gesture. "You are taking the credit of 
the rescue away from Clyde. You couldn't expect 
him to stand that, now, could you ? He brought 
me all the way in, just as you saw. He picked 
me up as if I 'd been a chip. He didn't seem 
to have the least confidence in my swimming. 
He just held on. I should have been — I might 
have — Clyde," quavered Cara, " you 're a 
splendid, precious, noble fellow, and I love you with 
all my heart!" She took the collie's head in her 
hands, and put her trembling lips to his wet, 
scarred forehead. 

" Oh, see here ! " said Dane. 

Cara, in her crimson boating dress, stood up, 
pale and dripping. He could see how she 
struggled for her self-possession. 

" I struck a reef," she said, " and we went over. 
That's all. I am very much ashamed of it. I 
never capsized before. And I tried to swim ; but 
my dress was heavy (it 's ladies' cloth), and there 
was something in the water that held me back." 

" There 's a tremendous undertow to-day," said 
Dane, shuddering. "Come!" he added, for he 
choked. " I can't have you standing here." He 
drew the girl along, lifted her over the rocks, 

 

picked her up and put her into his buggy without 
a word. He did not consult her wishes or explain 
his purpose; he drove off wildly towards the
chocolate eclair house. Clyde followed, drenched and 
ecstatic, in the dust. Cara spoke but once, then 
she said : — 

" Do you really think it was the undertow? " 

Dane made no reply. They met no one on the 
way; he drove rapidly, and pulled his horse to 
the haunches at Solomon's gate. 

" Why don't you take me home ? " demanded 
Cara, when the doctor put up his soaked arms to 
take her out of the buggy. 

" What do you think it would do to your fa- 
ther?" he muttered savagely, "seeing you like 
this ? Nannie will take care of you," he added 
more softly. " Come ! " 

Cara said no more. She obeyed him, looking 
a little frightened, and the two went, dripping, up 
Solomon's squash-colored steps, and crossed his 
chocolate threshold. Solomon was not at home. 
He was in his cranberry swamp, happily engaged 
in swindling an unsophisticated pork-packer out 
of a front price for a back acre. 

But Nannie gracefully met the unexpected 
freshet tossed upon her hospitality. 

Miss Sterling came meekly into the doctor's 
dingy office, when he sent for her twenty minutes 

 

later. She had never been there before. She did 
not look about the barren room ; but she felt the 
rudeness of the struggle which it represented, to 
her last luxurious nerve. She wore one of Nannie's 
white silk blouse waists and her gray cloth skirt. 
Cara's wet hair hung in two long braids. Her 
face had its charming, timid look. Clyde came 
with her. The collie had a ceremonious and rather 
a haughty air. 

" I always was convinced," she began nervously, 
" that Nannie had my dressmaker. Now there 's 
no doubt about it. Just see ! " 

Dane made no answer to this. He had risen 
at her entrance, and stood looking at her quite 
steadily. 

" Do you know," ventured Cara, " that when 
you swam after us out there, in the water, I was 
afraid you 'd overtake us — I was afraid Clyde 
would let me go, to snap at you. Then where 
should I have been, or you, either, if he had held 
your head under? " 

Dane met the mischief in her eyes with an omi- 
nous solemnity. He did not speak. 

"Dear Clyde," cooed the girl, "dear Clyde!" 
She lifted her embarrassed eyes; but the doctor 
had no mercy on her. Clyde regarded the two 
gravely, and, after a moment's consideration, placed 
himself between them. He did not growl now or 



express any displeasure, but his fine eyes had a 
melancholy look. 

Dane stood with his dark head thrown back, 
and his square shoulders very straight. 

" Have you read my letter ? " 

" Yes, Dr. Dane." 

" Carefully ? " 

" Yes, Doctor." 

" What have you to say to it ? " 

" Nothing," said Cara, distinctly. 

He wheeled and turned to the window. She 
could hear his hard, short breathing. 

" Very well," he said. " Shall I see you to your 
carriage ? I have telephoned for Tibbs." 

" Doctor," pleaded the girl, " do you think you 
ought to make me say it ? " 

" I would if I could ! " gasped Dane, raptu- 
rously. He took two steps towards her. " If you 
loved me, you would be my wife," he said, "in 
spite of all." 

She pushed the collie gently away, and stood 
troubled and irresolute. Dane held out his 
shaking arms. With a beautiful gesture, half royal, 
half suppliant, she crossed the little space between 
them. 

" Oh, do you understand," he cried manfully, 
" what this means — what you are doing ? It 
would be wrong for me to let you make a mistake. 
It 's for all your life, remember. And we 
may have to wait a great while. And I 'm not a 
very noble fellow — I 'm full of faults and
weaknesses. You don't know even what they are. I 
can't even swear to make you happy — only that 
I shall care for nothing else on earth except to 
try. I love you ... so much . . ." 

His voice dropped. 

" And I," she tried to tell him, " I — " She 
buried her sweet face on the arm that held her 
off. 

" I am in the undertow," she breathed. " Let 
me drown." 

A long, profound sigh arose, and filled the 
room, and fell. It was like the effort of an inar- 
ticulate soul to say something. It came from the 
collie, forgotten for the first time in his life, who 
stood between the woman and the man. 



CHAPTER VII 

When Dane took her to her carriage, a patient 
intercepted him, and he was forced to go back to 
his office and to let her ride home alone. 

There was a certain significance in this trifling 
incident which did not escape the prevision of the 
girl's heart. She remembered a thing some woman 
— probably it was Mrs. Strang — once said to 
her: — 

" My dear, never be a doctor's wife, unless you 
are willing to gather him up in twelve basketfuls 
and feast on the fragments." 

Already, at the brink of joy, the inexorable claim 
of her lover's strenuous calling pushed her aside. 
Always she must yield to this right — she whose 
fortunate young life had yielded to so little, and 
had evaded the strenuous like perfumed air; she 
to whom the word inexorable was written in an 
unknown tongue. But nothing troubled her. Her 
lips stirred. " I love him," they said. 

When he hurried to her that evening he found 
her more at ease than himself. She met him on 
the avenue; he thought she had been waiting for 
him; the sun was just dipping through the thick 

 

trees ; lances of light quivered about her, and 
seemed to strike at him, as if to hold him off. He 
stood for a moment bareheaded. 

"You don't repent?" he challenged. "You are 
not sorry ? " 

Smiling, she lifted her eyes; a beautiful mist 
melted across them; he felt it would be rudeness 
to look beyond it. He counted himself unworthy 
to know how she loved him. When he moved 
towards her it was as if one of the lances of light 
pierced him through the heart. He felt unfit to 
touch her hand. He could have stooped, and put 
the hem of her dress to his lips. A singular em- 
barrassment overcame him, and in his effort to 
free himself from it his mind fastened upon the 
first trifle that fell in its way. 

"Why, you have still got on Nannie's dress!" 
he said. Her head drooped a little. 

"Do you mind?" she asked timidly. " I thought 
you would like it. I kept it on . . . to please 
you. I thought ... I had it on this morning, 
and it was the first time ... it was the first dress 
that . . ." 

He crushed the unfinished words from her lips. 
He drew her apart, among the trees. The sun had 
now dropped. The delicate moment that is neither 
sunset nor twilight enveloped them. Her face, 
gently upturned, lay back upon his arm. 

 



"Cara!" he said, "Cara! Dear!" He felt as if 
that one word held his whole soul It was like a 
cup into which his being had been poured. At that 
moment there was nothing more to offer her. Her 
pure, flower-like face had an expression before 
which the lover's rapture stood still. It seemed to 
him a profanity to kiss her. But when he had 
kissed her, it seemed to him worship. And the 
first seeming blended into the last, and the last 
remained with him, and it held (no man can tell 
us how) the ineffable essence of both seemings and 
of both feelings, while yet it appeared to be but 
one. 

They moved apart silently, and walked among 
the heavy trees, by the footpath that led past the 
chasm to the sea. The first man and the first 
woman walked in the garden in the cool of the 
day, and God called them. The lover was the one 
to remember that they were not in Eden. The girl 
was like a spirit in a celestial swoon; she might 
have gone dreaming on, forever. 

"Dear," he said, lingering on the strangeness 
and preciousness of the word, " I have a good deal 
to say to your father; I cannot have him think 
that I do not realize the position in which I am 
placing you; and perhaps the sooner it's over, the 
better." 

" He is very tired," said Cara. " He has gone to 
 

bed. But he will see you, if you wish. I told him 
you might come." 

"Have you told your father — " began Dane, 
startled. 

" I have told him everything," said Cara, quietly. 

" But what will he think? " cried Dane, in real 
distress. " A struggling, starving fellow like me, 
keeping you waiting, — so long. Why, it may 
be years!" groaned Dane. "That's the worst 
of it." 

" I didn't think," said Cara, almost inaudibly, 
" that it need be quite so long. There is . . . 
enough," she added timidly. 

" But I won't take you until I can take care of 
you ! " quivered Dane. " I 'm not that kind of
fellow — to woo a rich man's daughter and live on 
my father-in-law. I ought to have been the one to 
explain to him. Oh, what must he think of me ? 
I 'm not sunk to that. I can't be put in that position ! " 
The veins on Dane's forehead stood out, and 
throbbed. Cara's uncompromising candor of soul 
would have made it clear to her that she had seen 
him angry — for the first time — and that before 
the rapture of their first kisses had died upon their 
lips ; but her elect and exquisite womanliness closed 
its eyes before this first strain upon its vision. With 
a sweet dignity which would not permit itself to 
stoop to see the vrritation on her lover's manner 

 

— sparing him even to himself, already — she 
gently said : — 

" It is not my father's money. It is my own. It 
was Mother's when she was alive. There is enough 

— there is a good deal. And we can . . . 
whenever you wish. It shall be as you wish. I do 
not mean to — " She broke off, crimson to her 
brows. 

" Shall I throw myself on my knees ? " cried 
Dane, choking. "Or off the rocks? I'm not fit 
to be anywhere else — but in one of those two 
places." 

They had left the trees behind them, and were 
standing on the edge of the great chasm, which 
was filled by the passion of the rising tide. It was 
heavy twilight now. Cara looked down. 

" If you went over there," she said steadily, "I 
don't know but I might go, too. And if you went 
on your knees, I should lift you up." 

" Lift me up!" entreated Dane. He fell, in the 
dusk, and bowed his face before her, and put a 
fold of her dress to his lips. 

Across the ravine, strolling through the 
shrubbery towards the bridge, a massive figure, moving 
slowly, paused. Bareheaded, and smiling, with the 
attitude and motions which betoken ease of mind 
and heart, the preacher set his foot upon the iron 
bridge; it trembled, expectant of his tread, but he 

did not cross. Carved from the departing day and 
the advancing night, like a startled purpose or 
arrested feeling, he might have been struck out of 
the granite on which he stood. It was darkening 
fast about him. All his strong outlines dimmed 
before they turned and reassumed the foliage and 
blossom of his own garden. From granite to shadow 
he melted imperceptibly. It was now dark. The 
preacher walked unsteadily ; his head sunk upon 
his breast. The figures across the chasm had not 
stirred. In the gulf, the passion of the rising tide 
mounted with an inexorable sound. 

Dane came out from Mr. Sterling's room with 
brilliant eyes. The details of the interview between 
the two, known only to themselves, had left the 
young man his self-respect and his ecstasy. In the 
flush of these, he drew the girl's hand powerfully 
through his arm and proudly led her to her father. 
Cara felt the new element in his touch; it filled 
her with delight and fear; this was the moment 
when her feeling came out of the glamour in which 
it had floated — a beautiful and dreaming con- 
sciousness — and faced the conditions of life. As 
she had come in from the twilight, and the illusion 
of the sea, and the bewilderment of the rising tide, 
abruptly to the lighted house, and the familiar 
sights of the sick room — so the scenery in her 

 

heart had shifted suddenly. All that was powerful 
in the force of habit, all that was sacred in family 
relations and in old friendships, all that had 
dignity in the atmosphere of class, assumed a value 
which she had never felt before. Suddenly she 
perceived that she understood what it all meant. 
Her heart brimmed with a tender longing to share 
the cup of her joy with her father. She thought 
of her dead mother wistfully. She wished that she 
could kneel and lay her head upon that phantom 
lap. It had not suggested itself to her before, that 
she had burst into the garden of love without a 
guiding hand. 

" Dear Papa ! " she said helplessly. 

He laid his high-veined hand upon her head, 
for she had dropped upon her knees beside his 
bed, and soothed her feebly. 

" There, there, my child ! It 's all right, Cara. I 
am not strong enough to-night to talk it over, but 
it 's all right. I am very fond of Dr. Dane. It is 
not — precisely such a marriage as the — ladies 
of our family have been accustomed to make, my 
daughter. But I don't know that this matters . . . 
much. If he makes you happy — " 

" May God do so to me, and more also, if I do 
not make her happy ! " interrupted Dane, with 
ungovernable fervor. 

" I am very fond of Dr. Dane," repeated the invalid 
wearily, and turned his head upon his pil- 
low. He did not respond to the lover's passionate 
objurgation ; and its evident, though impetuous, 
sincerity sunk into a silence which was not with- 
out embarrassment. 

" Papa," said Cara, rising from her knees, " I 
want you to understand. I cannot deceive you 
about this. It makes me very happy that you feel 
so — Oh, happier than I know how to say. And 
I should have been miserable if it had been any 
other way. But, Papa, if nobody felt so — if the 
whole world went against us — I should marry 
Dr. Dane." 

" And don't you suppose I knew that ? " asked 
Rollinstall Sterling, with a sombre smile. His gray 
lashes twitched and worked rapidly, as they did 
when he was under much emotion — a nervous 
habit acquired since he had been an invalid. 

" But I didn't," interposed Cara, " I did not 
know a girl could feel like this. I did not 
understand about it. I don't care what marriages the 
ladies of our family have been accustomed to 
make. I could live on a desert island — with him, 
Papa." All the scenery of her feeling had shifted 
swiftly back. The force of habit and the usual 
relations of life retreated like stage settings with which 
a drama had done. With a beautiful gesture she 
turned to Dane, and laid her hand in his. 


" I could starve," she said. 

The nervous flutter of the invalid's eyelids 
increased until the twitching became almost
convulsive. He seemed so exhausted that the daughter 
and the doctor reproached themselves for allowing 
him to undergo so much excitement. The doctor 
prescribed something, and they left him alone for 
the night. 

In the middle of the dim drawing-room Dane 
stood for the first time, a lover accepted and 
accredited, and held out his arms. Cara crept to them 
gently. She did not speak, and he did not urge 
her. He led her to the cretonne sofa, with the 
roses, and they sat down together. Cara left her 
hand in his, but held her head erect upon her own 
shoulders. He felt that she retreated from him at 
that moment, he did not know why. Cara did not 
find it necessary to tell him, and he hesitated to 
ask her. A certain delicate dignity, peculiar to 
herself, and always unexpected in so gentle a 
woman, folded her apart from him. She did not 
know how to say, she did not even wish to say, 
what she felt just then. 

Suddenly his own words crowded into her 
thought : — 

" It is for all your life, remember." 

She turned and put up her arms ; as his clasped 
her, she lifted her lips. 

 

" Oh, be good to me," she said. " There won't 
be . . . anybody else." 

It did not occur to Cara until the next day that 
she would be expected to announce her betrothal 
to her cousin at once. She waited until afternoon 
for him to make his daily visit to his uncle's 
house; but he did not come. She watched for his 
leisurely, large outlines on the iron bridge, until 
she grew uncomfortable, and so sat down and 
wrote an impulsive note, which said : — 

Dear Cousin Sterling, — We have missed you 

all day. 

Cara. 

She had, in fact, called Kathleen to carry this, 
when she changed her mind abruptly, tore up the 
note, and went herself. She ran lightly across the 
bridge, without looking down into the chasm, — 
a thing she did not always like to do, — and 
hurried through the garden. As she approached 
the house her feet began to obstruct her, and she 
lagged. He was sitting on his piazza with a book ; 
but he was not reading. His face was turned to- 
wards the sea. There was a southeasterly, and the 
surf had its raving, thwarted sound ; it was like 
the rage of some primeval life, conscious of hurt, 
and ominous of pangs to come. 

 



She stood still at the foot of the piazza steps, in 
her light summer dress with its rose ribbon, and 
her shade hat hung across one arm, a girlish figure,
looking younger than her years. She glanced 
up at him like a child or a penitent, coaxingly. 

" We have missed you all day," she began, with 
conscious awkwardness. " I came over to see — I 
came over to tell you — " 

He uttered a few inaudible words, and with the 
something beautiful and reverential in his man- 
ner which he cherished for her, led her up the 
steps. She would not sit, and he stood beside her 
on the broad piazza. Jane crossed the hall and 
shut the door, and her footsteps ceased upon the 
ear in the silent, lonely house. 

" Why, Cousin Sterling ! " said Cara, " you don't 
look well. Is anything the matter? " 

"You came to confess to me — not I to you, 
Cousin Carolyn," he answered, smiling. 

Her heart leaned towards him now, bent with 
the pressure of a lifetime spent in leaning on him. 
She felt as if she could have sat on the floor 
and buried her face on his big knee like a very 
little girl. She wanted his blessing just then, as 
much as she had ever wanted anything in her 
life. 

" Cousin Sterling," she began, turning swiftly 
white about the mouth, in a fashion she had when 

 

she was deeply moved, " I have promised to marry 
Papa's physician, Dr. Dane. I came to tell you. 
I thought you would come over this morning." 

" Never mind, child," he said gently. 

" I hope — we hope you will like it," faltered 
Cara, in unconcealed embarrassment. Sterling 
Hart walked the length of the piazza, and stood, 
looking seaward and surfward, silently. 

" Cousin Cara," he said, without turning around, 
" do you love this man ? " 

" I do." Unconsciously Cara found the phrase- 
ology of the marriage service on her trembling 
lips. 

" With all your heart ? " 

" With all my heart." 

" And all your soul ? " 

Cara felt frightened, and something hurt at the 
pertinacity and solemnity of the preacher. A flippant 
reply rose to her lips : " Can't I get my soul 
out of your diocese, Cousin Sterling?" After- 
wards she was glad that she did not say it. 

" Is there any difference ? " she began in a trem- 
bling voice. But it faltered away into an impetu- 
ous, half-fretful cry : — 

" Oh, bless me, Cousin Sterling ! I do need it. 
Papa is so sick — and I haven't any mother — 
and you 've always made up for everything all my 
life!" 

 



He turned slowly, and walked the length of the 
piazza towards her. He had a remote, exalted 
look. Old Bible words came curiously to Cara's 
mind ; something about a face which " shone as it 
