irascibility: "Upon my soul, Amherst, the tone you take about what your
wife has done doesn't strike me as the likeliest way of encouraging her
to do more!"

"I don't want to encourage her to do more on such a basis--the sooner
she sees the futility of it the better for Westmore!"

"The futility--?" Bessy broke out, with a flutter of tears in her voice;
but before her father could intervene Mr. Tredegar had raised his hand
with the gesture of one accustomed to wield the gavel.

"My dear child, I see Amherst's point, and it is best, as he says, that
you should see it too. What he desires, as I understand it, is the
complete reconstruction of the present state of things at Westmore; and
he is right in saying that all your good works there--night-schools, and
nursery, and so forth--leave that issue untouched."

A smile quivered under Mr. Langhope's moustache. He and Amherst both
knew that Mr. Tredegar's feint of recognizing the justice of his
adversary's claim was merely the first step to annihilating it; but
Bessy could never be made to understand this, and always felt herself
deserted and betrayed when any side but her own was given a hearing.

"I'm sorry if all I have tried to do at Westmore is useless--but I
suppose I shall never understand business," she murmured, vainly seeking
consolation in her father's eye.

"This is not business," Amherst broke in. "It's the question of your
personal relation to the people there--the last thing that business
considers."

Mr. Langhope uttered an impatient exclamation. "I wish to heaven the
owner of the mills had made it clear just what that relation was to be!"

"I think he did, sir," Amherst answered steadily, "in leaving his wife
the unrestricted control of the property."

He had reddened under Mr. Langhope's thrust, but his voice betrayed no
irritation, and Bessy rewarded him with an unexpected beam of sympathy:
she was always up in arms at the least sign of his being treated as an
intruder.

"I am sure, papa," she said, a little tremulously, "that poor Richard,
though he knew I was not clever, felt he could trust me to take the best
advice----"

"Ah, that's all we ask of you, my child!" her father sighed, while Mr.
Tredegar drily interposed: "We are merely losing time by this
digression. Let me suggest that Amherst should give us an idea of the
changes he wishes to make at Westmore."

Amherst, as he turned to answer, remembered with what ardent faith in
his powers of persuasion he had responded to the same appeal three years
earlier. He had thought then that all his cause needed was a hearing;
now he knew that the practical man's readiness to let the idealist talk
corresponds with the busy parent's permission to destructive infancy to
"run out and play." They would let him state his case to the four
corners of the earth--if only he did not expect them to act on it! It
was their policy to let him exhaust himself in argument and exhortation,
to listen to him so politely and patiently that if he failed to enforce
his ideas it should not be for lack of opportunity to expound them....
And the alternative struck him as hardly less to be feared. Supposing
that the incredible happened, that his reasons prevailed with his wife,
and, through her, with the others--at what cost would the victory be
won? Would Bessy ever forgive him for winning it? And what would his
situation be, if it left him in control of Westmore but estranged from
his wife?

He recalled suddenly a phrase he had used that afternoon to the
dark-eyed girl at the garden-party: "What risks we run when we scramble
into the chariot of the gods!" And at the same instant he heard her
retort, and saw her fine gesture of defiance. How could he ever have
doubted that the thing was worth doing at whatever cost? Something in
him--some secret lurking element of weakness and evasion--shrank out of
sight in the light of her question: "Do you act on that?" and the "God
forbid!" he had instantly flashed back to her. He turned to Mr. Tredegar
with his answer.

Amherst knew that any large theoretical exposition of the case would be
as much wasted on the two men as on his wife. To gain his point he must
take only one step at a time, and it seemed to him that the first thing
needed at Westmore was that the hands should work and live under
healthier conditions. To attain this, two important changes were
necessary: the floor-space of the mills must be enlarged, and the
company must cease to rent out tenements, and give the operatives the
opportunity to buy land for themselves. Both these changes involved the
upheaval of the existing order. Whenever the Westmore mills had been
enlarged, it had been for the sole purpose of increasing the revenues of
the company; and now Amherst asked that these revenues should be
materially and permanently reduced. As to the suppression of the company
tenement, such a measure struck at the roots of the baneful paternalism
which was choking out every germ of initiative in the workman. Once the
operatives had room to work in, and the hope of homes of their own to
go to when work was over, Amherst was willing to trust to time for the
satisfaction of their other needs. He believed that a sounder
understanding of these needs would develop on both sides the moment the
employers proved their good faith by the deliberate and permanent
sacrifice of excessive gain to the well-being of the employed; and once
the two had learned to regard each other not as antagonists but as
collaborators, a long step would have been taken toward a readjustment
of the whole industrial relation. In regard to general and distant
results, Amherst tried not to be too sanguine, even in his own thoughts.
His aim was to remedy the abuse nearest at hand, in the hope of thus
getting gradually closer to the central evil; and, had his action been
unhampered, he would still have preferred the longer and more circuitous
path of practical experiment to the sweeping adoption of a new
industrial system.

But his demands, moderate as they were, assumed in his hearers the
consciousness of a moral claim superior to the obligation of making
one's business "pay"; and it was the futility of this assumption that
chilled the arguments on his lips, since in the orthodox creed of the
business world it was a weakness and not a strength to be content with
five per cent where ten was obtainable. Business was one thing,
philanthropy another; and the enthusiasts who tried combining them were
usually reduced, after a brief flight, to paying fifty cents on the
dollar, and handing over their stock to a promoter presumably unhampered
by humanitarian ideals.

Amherst knew that this was the answer with which his plea would be met;
knew, moreover, that the plea was given a hearing simply because his
judges deemed it so pitiably easy to refute. But the knowledge, once he
had begun to speak, fanned his argument to a white heat of pleading,
since, with failure so plainly ahead, small concessions and compromises
were not worth making. Reason would be wasted on all; but eloquence
might at least prevail with Bessy....

       *       *       *       *       *

When, late that night, he went upstairs after long pacings of the
garden, he was surprised to see a light in her room. She was not given
to midnight study, and fearing that she might be ill he knocked at her
door. There was no answer, and after a short pause he turned the handle
and entered.

In the great canopied Westmore couch, her arms flung upward and her
hands clasped beneath her head, she lay staring fretfully at the globe
of electric light which hung from the centre of the embossed and gilded
ceiling. Seen thus, with the soft curves of throat and arms revealed,
and her face childishly set in a cloud of loosened hair, she looked no
older than Cicely--and, like Cicely, inaccessible to grown-up arguments
and the stronger logic of experience.

It was a trick of hers, in such moods, to ignore any attempt to attract
her notice; and Amherst was prepared for her remaining motionless as he
paused on the threshold and then advanced toward the middle of the room.
There had been a time when he would have been exasperated by her
pretense of not seeing him, but a deep weariness of spirit now dulled
him to these surface pricks.

"I was afraid you were not well when I saw the light burning," he began.

"Thank you--I am quite well," she answered in a colourless voice,
without turning her head.

"Shall I put it out, then? You can't sleep with such a glare in your
eyes."

"I should not sleep at any rate; and I hate to lie awake in the dark."

"Why shouldn't you sleep?" He moved nearer, looking down compassionately
on her perturbed face and struggling lips.

She lay silent a moment; then she faltered out: "B--because I'm so
unhappy!"

The pretense of indifference was swept away by a gush of childish sobs
as she flung over on her side and buried her face in the embroidered
pillows.

Amherst, bending down, laid a quieting hand on her shoulder. "Bessy----"

She sobbed on.

He seated himself silently in the arm-chair beside the bed, and kept his
soothing hold on her shoulder. The time had come when he went through
all these accustomed acts of pacification as mechanically as a nurse
soothing a fretful child. And once he had thought her weeping eloquent!
He looked about him at the spacious room, with its heavy hangings of
damask and the thick velvet carpet which stifled his steps. Everywhere
were the graceful tokens of her presence--the vast lace-draped
toilet-table strewn with silver and crystal, the embroidered muslin
cushions heaped on the lounge, the little rose-lined slippers she had
just put off, the lace wrapper, with a scent of violets in its folds,
which he had pushed aside when he sat down beside her; and he remembered
how full of a mysterious and intimate charm these things had once
appeared to him. It was characteristic that the remembrance made him
more patient with her now. Perhaps, after all, it was his failure that
she was crying over....

"Don't be unhappy. You decided as seemed best to you," he said.

She pressed her handkerchief against her lips, still keeping her head
averted. "But I hate all these arguments and disputes. Why should you
unsettle everything?" she murmured.

His mother's words! Involuntarily he removed his hand from her
shoulder, though he still remained seated by the bed.

"You are right. I see the uselessness of it," he assented, with an
uncontrollable note of irony.

She turned her head at the tone, and fixed her plaintive brimming eyes
on him. "You are angry with me!"

"Was that troubling you?" He leaned forward again, with compassion in
his face. Sancta simplicitas! was the thought within him.

"I am not angry," he went on; "be reasonable and try to sleep."

She started upright, the light masses of her hair floating about her
like silken sea-weed lifted on an invisible tide. "Don't talk like that!
I can't endure to be humoured like a baby. I am unhappy because I can't
see why all these wretched questions should be dragged into our life. I
hate to have you always disagreeing with Mr. Tredegar, who is so clever
and has so much experience; and yet I hate to see you give way to him,
because that makes it appear as if...as if...."

"He didn't care a straw for my ideas?" Amherst smiled. "Well, he
doesn't--and I never dreamed of making him. So don't worry about that
either."

"You never dreamed of making him care for your ideas? But then why do
you----"

"Why do I go on setting them forth at such great length?" Amherst smiled
again. "To convince you--that's my only ambition."

She stared at him, shaking her head back to toss a loose lock from her
puzzled eyes. A tear still shone on her lashes, but with the motion it
fell and trembled down her cheek.

"To convince me? But you know I am so ignorant of such things."

"Most women are."

"I never pretended to understand anything about--economics, or whatever
you call it."

"No."

"Then how----"

He turned and looked at her gently. "I thought you might have begun to
understand something about me."

"About you?" The colour flowered softly under her clear skin.

"About what my ideas on such subjects were likely to be worth--judging
from what you know of me in other respects." He paused and glanced away
from her. "Well," he concluded deliberately, "I suppose I've had my
answer tonight."

"Oh, John----!"

He rose and wandered across the room, pausing a moment to finger
absently the trinkets on the dressing-table. The act recalled with a
curious vividness certain dulled sensations of their first days
together, when to handle and examine these frail little accessories of
her toilet had been part of the wonder and amusement of his new
existence. He could still hear her laugh as she leaned over him,
watching his mystified look in the glass, till their reflected eyes met
there and drew down her lips to his. He laid down the fragrant
powder-puff he had been turning slowly between his fingers, and moved
back toward the bed. In the interval he had reached a decision.

"Well--isn't it natural that I should think so?" he began again, as he
stood beside her. "When we married I never expected you to care or know
much about economics. It isn't a quality a man usually chooses his wife
for. But I had a fancy--perhaps it shows my conceit--that when we had
lived together a year or two, and you'd found out what kind of a fellow
I was in other ways--ways any woman can judge of--I had a fancy that you
might take my opinions on faith when it came to my own special
business--the thing I'm generally supposed to know about."

He knew that he was touching a sensitive chord, for Bessy had to the
full her sex's pride of possessorship. He was human and faulty till
others criticized him--then he became a god. But in this case a
conflicting influence restrained her from complete response to his
appeal.

"I do feel sure you know--about the treatment of the hands and all
that; but you said yourself once--the first time we ever talked about
Westmore--that the business part was different----"

Here it was again, the ancient ineradicable belief in the separable body
and soul! Even an industrial organization was supposed to be subject to
the old theological distinction, and Bessy was ready to co-operate with
her husband in the emancipation of Westmore's spiritual part if only its
body remained under the law.

Amherst controlled his impatience, as it was always easy for him to do
when he had fixed on a definite line of conduct.

"It was my situation that was different; not what you call the business
part. That is inextricably bound up with the treatment of the hands. If
I am to have anything to do with the mills now I can deal with them only
as your representative; and as such I am bound to take in the whole
question."

Bessy's face clouded: was he going into it all again? But he read her
look and went on reassuringly: "That was what I meant by saying that I
hoped you would take me on faith. If I want the welfare of Westmore it's
above all, I believe, because I want Westmore to see you as I do--as
the dispenser of happiness, who could not endure to benefit by any wrong
or injustice to others."

"Of course, of course I don't want to do them injustice!"

"Well, then----"

He had seated himself beside her again, clasping in his the hand with
which she was fretting the lace-edged sheet. He felt her restless
fingers surrender slowly, and her eyes turned to him in appeal.

"But I care for what people say of you too! And you know--it's horrid,
but one must consider it--if they say you're spending my money
imprudently...." The blood rose to her neck and face. "I don't mind for
myself...even if I have to give up as many things as papa and Mr.
Tredegar think...but there is Cicely...and if people said...."

"If people said I was spending Cicely's money on improving the condition
of the people to whose work she will some day owe all her wealth--"
Amherst paused: "Well, I would rather hear that said of me than any
other thing I can think of, except one."

"Except what?"

"That I was doing it with her mother's help and approval."

She drew a long tremulous sigh: he knew it was always a relief to her to
have him assert himself strongly. But a residue of resistance still
clouded her mind.

"I should always want to help you, of course; but if Mr. Tredegar and
Halford Gaines think your plan unbusinesslike----"

"Mr. Tredegar and Halford Gaines are certain to think it so. And that is
why I said, just now, that it comes, in the end, to your choosing
between us; taking them on experience or taking me on faith."

She looked at him wistfully. "Of course I should expect to give up
things.... You wouldn't want me to live here?"

"I should not ask you to," he said, half-smiling.

"I suppose there would be a good many things we couldn't do----"

"You would certainly have less money for a number of years; after that,
I believe you would have more rather than less; but I should not want
you to think that, beyond a reasonable point, the prosperity of the
mills was ever to be measured by your dividends."

"No." She leaned back wearily among the pillows. "I suppose, for
instance, we should have to give up Europe this summer----?"

Here at last was the bottom of her thought! It was always on the
immediate pleasure that her soul hung: she had not enough imagination to
look beyond, even in the projecting of her own desires. And it was on
his knowledge of this limitation that Amherst had deliberately built.

"I don't see how you could go to Europe," he said.

"The doctor thinks I need it," she faltered.

"In that case, of course--" He stood up, not abruptly, or with any show
of irritation, but as if accepting this as her final answer. "What you
need most, in the meantime, is a little sleep," he said. "I will tell
your maid not to disturb you in the morning." He had returned to his
soothing way of speech, as though definitely resigned to the inutility
of farther argument. "And I will say goodbye now," he continued,
"because I shall probably take an early train, before you wake----"

She sat up with a start. "An early train? Why, where are you going?"

"I must go to Chicago some time this month, and as I shall not be wanted
here tomorrow I might as well run out there at once, and join you next
week at Lynbrook."

Bessy had grown pale. "But I don't understand----"

Their eyes met. "Can't you understand that I am human enough to prefer,
under the circumstances, not being present at tomorrow's meeting?" he
said with a dry laugh.

She sank back with a moan of discouragement, turning her face away as he
began to move toward his room.

"Shall I put the light out?" he asked, pausing with his hand on the
electric button.

"Yes, please."

He pushed in the button and walked on, guided through the obscurity by
the line of light under his door. As he reached the threshold he heard a
little choking cry.

"John--oh, John!"

He paused.

"I can't bear it!" The sobs increased.

"Bear what?"

"That you should hate me----"

"Don't be foolish," he said, groping for his door-handle.

"But you do hate me--and I deserve it!"

"Nonsense, dear. Try to sleep."

"I can't sleep till you've forgiven me. Say you don't hate me! I'll do
anything...only say you don't hate me!"

He stood still a moment, thinking; then he turned back, and made his way
across the room to her side. As he sat down beside her, he felt her arms
reach for his neck and her wet face press itself against his cheek.

"I'll do anything..." she sobbed; and in the darkness he held her to him
and hated his victory.




XIII


MRS. ANSELL was engaged in what she called picking up threads. She had
been abroad for the summer--had, in, fact, transferred herself but a few
hours earlier from her returning steamer to the little station at
Lynbrook--and was now, in the bright September afternoon, which left her
in sole possession of the terrace of Lynbrook House, using that pleasant
eminence as a point of observation from which to gather up some of the
loose ends of history dropped at her departure.

It might have been thought that the actual scene out-spread below
her--the descending gardens, the tennis-courts, the farm-lands sloping
away to the blue sea-like shimmer of the Hempstead plains--offered, at
the moment, little material for her purpose; but that was to view them
with a superficial eye. Mrs. Ansell's trained gaze was, for example,
greatly enlightened by the fact that the tennis-courts were fringed by a
group of people indolently watchful of the figures agitating themselves
about the nets; and that, as she turned her head toward the entrance
avenue, the receding view of a station omnibus, followed by a
luggage-cart, announced that more guests were to be added to those who
had almost taxed to its limits the expansibility of the luncheon-table.

All this, to the initiated eye, was full of suggestion; but its
significance was as nothing to that presented by the approach of two
figures which, as Mrs. Ansell watched, detached themselves from the
cluster about the tennis-ground and struck, obliquely and at a desultory
pace, across the lawn toward the terrace. The figures--those of a slight
young man with stooping shoulders, and of a lady equally youthful but
slenderly erect--moved forward in absorbed communion, as if unconscious
of their surroundings and indefinite as to their direction, till, on the
brink of the wide grass terrace just below their observer's parapet,
they paused a moment and faced each other in closer speech. This
interchange of words, though brief in measure of time, lasted long
enough to add a vivid strand to Mrs. Ansell's thickening skein; then, on
a gesture of the lady's, and without signs of formal leave-taking, the
young man struck into a path which regained the entrance avenue, while
his companion, quickening her pace, crossed the grass terrace and
mounted the wide stone steps sweeping up to the house.

These brought her out on the upper terrace a few yards from Mrs.
Ansell's post, and exposed her, unprepared, to the full beam of welcome
which that lady's rapid advance threw like a searchlight across her
path.

"Dear Miss Brent! I was just wondering how it was that I hadn't seen you
before." Mrs. Ansell, as she spoke, drew the girl's hand into a long
soft clasp which served to keep them confronted while she delicately
groped for whatever thread the encounter seemed to proffer.

Justine made no attempt to evade the scrutiny to which she found herself
exposed; she merely released her hand by a movement instinctively
evasive of the mechanical endearment, explaining, with a smile that
softened the gesture: "I was out with Cicely when you arrived. We've
just come in."

"The dear child! I haven't seen her either." Mrs. Ansell continued to
bestow upon the speaker's clear dark face an intensity of attention in
which, for the moment, Cicely had no perceptible share. "I hear you are
teaching her botany, and all kinds of wonderful things."

Justine smiled again. "I am trying to teach her to wonder: that is the
hardest faculty to cultivate in the modern child."

"Yes--I suppose so; in myself," Mrs. Ansell admitted with a responsive
brightness, "I find it develops with age. The world is a remarkable
place." She threw this off absently, as though leaving Miss Brent to
apply it either to the inorganic phenomena with which Cicely was
supposed to be occupied, or to those subtler manifestations that engaged
her own attention.

"It's a great thing," she continued, "for Bessy to have had your
help--for Cicely, and for herself too. There is so much that I want you
to tell me about her. As an old friend I want the benefit of your
fresher eye."

"About Bessy?" Justine hesitated, letting her glance drift to the
distant group still anchored about the tennis-nets. "Don't you find her
looking better?"

"Than when I left? So much so that I was unduly disturbed, just now, by
seeing that clever little doctor--it was he, wasn't it, who came up
the lawn with you?"

"Dr. Wyant? Yes." Miss Brent hesitated again. "But he merely
called--with a message."

"Not professionally? Tant mieux! The truth is, I was anxious about
Bessy when I left--I thought she ought to have gone abroad for a change.
But, as it turns out, her little excursion with you did as well."

"I think she only needed rest. Perhaps her six weeks in the Adirondacks
were better than Europe."

"Ah, under your care--that made them better!" Mrs. Ansell in turn
hesitated, the lines of her face melting and changing as if a rapid
stage-hand had shifted them. When she spoke again they were as open as a
public square, but also as destitute of personal significance, as flat
and smooth as the painted drop before the real scene it hides.

"I have always thought that Bessy, for all her health and activity,
needs as much care as Cicely--the kind of care a clever friend can give.
She is so wasteful of her strength and her nerves, and so unwilling to
listen to reason. Poor Dick Westmore watched over her as if she were a
baby; but perhaps Mr. Amherst, who must have been used to such a
different type of woman, doesn't realize...and then he's so little
here...." The drop was lit up by a smile that seemed to make it more
impenetrable. "As an old friend I can't help telling you how much I hope
she is to have you with her for a long time--a long, long time."

Miss Brent bent her head in slight acknowledgment of the tribute. "Oh,
soon she will not need any care----"

"My dear Miss Brent, she will always need it!" Mrs. Ansell made a
movement inviting the young girl to share the bench from which, at the
latter's approach, she had risen. "But perhaps there is not enough in
such a life to satisfy your professional energies."

She seated herself, and after an imperceptible pause Justine sank into
the seat beside her. "I am very glad, just now, to give my energies a
holiday," she said, leaning back with a little sigh of retrospective
weariness.

"You are tired too? Bessy wrote me you had been quite used up by a
trying case after we saw you at Hanaford."

Miss Brent smiled. "When a nurse is fit for work she calls a trying case
a 'beautiful' one."

"But meanwhile--?" Mrs. Ansell shone on her with elder-sisterly
solicitude. "Meanwhile, why not stay on with Cicely--above all, with
Bessy? Surely she's a 'beautiful' case too."

"Isn't she?" Justine laughingly agreed.

"And if you want to be tried--" Mrs. Ansell swept the scene with a
slight lift of her philosophic shoulders--"you'll find there are trials
enough everywhere."

Her companion started up with a glance at the small watch on her breast.
"One of them is that it's already after four, and that I must see that
tea is sent down to the tennis-ground, and the new arrivals looked
after."

"I saw the omnibus on its way to the station. Are many more people
coming?"

"Five or six, I believe. The house is usually full for Sunday."

Mrs. Ansell made a slight motion to detain her. "And when is Mr. Amherst
expected?"

Miss Brent's pale cheek seemed to take on a darker tone of ivory, and
her glance dropped from her companion's face to the vivid stretch of
gardens at their feet. "Bessy has not told me," she said.

"Ah--" the older woman rejoined, looking also toward the gardens, as if
to intercept Miss Brent's glance in its flight. The latter stood still a
moment, with the appearance of not wishing to evade whatever else her
companion might have to say; then she moved away, entering the house by
one window just as Mr. Langhope emerged from it by another.

The sound of his stick tapping across the bricks roused Mrs. Ansell from
her musings, but she showed her sense of his presence simply by
returning to the bench she had just left; and accepting this mute
invitation, Mr. Langhope crossed the terrace and seated himself at her
side.

When he had done so they continued to look at each other without
speaking, after the manner of old friends possessed of occult means of
communication; and as the result of this inward colloquy Mr. Langhope at
length said: "Well, what do you make of it?"

"What do you?" she rejoined, turning full upon him a face so released
from its usual defences and disguises that it looked at once older and
more simple than the countenance she presented to the world.

Mr. Langhope waved a deprecating hand. "I want your fresher
impressions."

"That's what I just now said to Miss Brent."

"You've been talking to Miss Brent?"

"Only a flying word--she had to go and look after the new arrivals."

Mr. Langhope's attention deepened. "Well, what did you say to her?"

"Wouldn't you rather hear what she said to me?"

He smiled. "A good cross-examiner always gets the answers he wants. Let
me hear your side, and I shall know hers."

"I should say that applied only to stupid cross-examiners; or to those
who have stupid subjects to deal with. And Miss Brent is not stupid, you
know."

"Far from it! What else do you make out?"

"I make out that she's in possession."

"Here?"

"Don't look startled. Do you dislike her?"

"Heaven forbid--with those eyes! She has a wit of her own, too--and she
certainly makes things easier for Bessy."

"She guards her carefully, at any rate. I could find out nothing."

"About Bessy?"

"About the general situation."

"Including Miss Brent?"

Mrs. Ansell smiled faintly. "I made one little discovery about her."

"Well?"

"She's intimate with the new doctor."

"Wyant?" Mr. Langhope's interest dropped. "What of that? I believe she
knew him before."

"I daresay. It's of no special importance, except as giving us a
possible clue to her character. She strikes me as interesting and
mysterious."

Mr. Langhope smiled. "The things your imagination does for you!"

"It helps me to see that we may find Miss Brent useful as a friend."

"A friend?"

"An ally." She paused, as if searching for a word. "She may restore the
equilibrium."

Mr. Langhope's handsome face darkened. "Open Bessy's eyes to Amherst?
Damn him!" he said quietly.

Mrs. Ansell let the imprecation pass. "When was he last here?" she
asked.

"Five or six weeks ago--for one night. His only visit since she came
back from the Adirondacks."

"What do you think his motive is? He must know what he risks in losing
his hold on Bessy."

"His motive? With your eye for them, can you ask? A devouring ambition,
that's all! Haven't you noticed that, in all except the biggest minds,
ambition takes the form of wanting to command where one has had to obey?
Amherst has been made to toe the line at Westmore, and now he wants
Truscomb--yes, and Halford Gaines, too!--to do the same. That's the
secret of his servant-of-the-people pose--gad, I believe it's the whole
secret of his marriage! He's devouring my daughter's substance to pay
off an old score against the mills. He'll never rest till he has
Truscomb out, and some creature of his own in command--and then, vogue
la galère! If it were women, now," Mr. Langhope summed up impatiently,
"one could understand it, at his age, and with that damned romantic
head--but to be put aside for a lot of low mongrelly socialist
mill-hands--ah, my poor girl--my poor girl!"

Mrs. Ansell mused. "You didn't write me that things were so bad. There's
been no actual quarrel?" she asked.

"How can there be, when the poor child does all he wants? He's simply
too busy to come and thank her!"

"Too busy at Hanaford?"

"So he says. Introducing the golden age at Westmore--it's likely to be
the age of copper at Lynbrook."

Mrs. Ansell drew a meditative breath. "I was thinking of that. I
understood that Bessy would have to retrench while the changes at
Westmore were going on."

"Well--didn't she give up Europe, and cable over to countermand her new
motor?"

"But the life here! This mob of people! Miss Brent tells me the house is
full for every week-end."

"Would you have my daughter cut off from all her friends?"

Mrs. Ansell met this promptly. "From some of the new ones, at any rate!
Have you heard who has just arrived?"

Mr. Langhope's hesitation showed a tinge of embarrassment. "I'm not
sure--some one has always just arrived."

"Well, the Fenton Carburys, then!" Mrs. Ansell left it to her tone to
annotate the announcement.

Mr. Langhope raised his eyebrows slightly. "Are they likely to be an
exceptionally costly pleasure?"

"If you're trying to prove that I haven't kept to the point--I can
assure you that I'm well within it!"

"But since the good Blanche has got her divorce and married Carbury,
wherein do they differ from other week-end automata?"

"Because most divorced women marry again to be respectable."

Mr. Langhope smiled faintly. "Yes--that's their punishment. But it would
be too dull for Blanche."

"Precisely. She married again to see Ned Bowfort!"

"Ah--that may yet be hers!"

Mrs. Ansell sighed at his perversity. "Meanwhile, she's brought him
here, and it is unnatural to see Bessy lending herself to such
combinations."

"You're corrupted by a glimpse of the old societies. Here Bowfort and
Carbury are simply hands at bridge."

"Old hands at it--yes! And the bridge is another point: Bessy never used
to play for money."

"Well, she may make something, and offset her husband's prodigalities."

"There again--with this train de vie, how on earth are both ends to
meet?"

Mr. Langhope grown suddenly grave, struck his cane resoundingly on the
terrace. "Westmore and Lynbrook? I don't want them to--I want them to
get farther and farther apart!"

She cast on him a look of startled divination. "You want Bessy to go on
spending too much money?"

"How can I help it if it costs?"

"If what costs--?" She stopped, her eyes still wide; then their glances
crossed, and she exclaimed: "If your scheme costs? It is your scheme,
then?"

He shrugged his shoulders again. "It's a passive attitude----"

"Ah, the deepest plans are that!" Mr. Langhope uttered no protest, and
she continued to piece her conjectures together. "But you expect it to
lead up to something active. Do you want a rupture?"

"I want him brought back to his senses."

"Do you think that will bring him back to her?"

"Where the devil else will he have to go?"

Mrs. Ansell's eyes dropped toward the gardens, across which desultory
knots of people were straggling back from the ended tennis-match. "Ah,
here they all come," she said, rising with a half-sigh; and as she stood
watching the advance of the brightly-tinted groups she added slowly:
"It's ingenious--but you don't understand him."

Mr. Langhope stroked his moustache. "Perhaps not," he assented
thoughtfully. "But suppose we go in before they join us? I want to show
you a set of Ming I picked up the other day for Bessy. I flatter myself
I do understand Ming."




XIV


JUSTINE BRENT, her household duties discharged, had gone upstairs to her
room, a little turret chamber projecting above the wide terrace below,
from which the sounds of lively intercourse now rose increasingly to her
