fond of the junior girls, and Miss Hamilton 
was, as she expressed it, quite eager for the 
fray. She mentioned several others that she 
called strong and level-headed girls. 
Lorraine and Helen dropped on a divan that 
some one had rolled up to get the benefit of 
the cheery blaze, although it was warm enough 
anywhere about the large room. Some of the 
girls were reading, and small groups were 
having animated discussions. Miss Ferris, a 
good student, although she had some peculiar- 
ities, sat quite by herself. She disliked to echo 
commonly received opinions, and always found 
a loophole of dissent ; a sort of protest against 
what she called arbitrary rules that were not 
needed out of childhood, since self-government 
was the order of the college. Before entering 
any contest, she went over all the arguments 
pro and con that she might not be caught nap- 
ping. Her face showed rather severe lines, 
as if it had always been turned to the serious 
side of life and despised frivolity. 
Lorraine had been studying her. She was 
not analytical and believed strongly in intui- 
tion, though she had no fancy for weak char- 
acters. She mentally decided that Gertie 
Hamilton would win in the argument. 
Helen’s thoughts went back to Uncle Jason, 
who seldom talked politics, but labored under 
the impression that every Democratic admin- 
istration had nearly ruined the country. And 
then the latest letter from Willard Bell flashed 
across her mind. The excitement of the com- 
ing election pervading New York had roused 
 
him, and as he was to put in his first vote he 
was all eager interest. She had really enjoyed 
it, since it was not filled with appeals to her. 
Willard and his father were to come to New 
York for the winter. Mrs. Bell was to go to 
Bermuda to Daisy, who somehow did not get 
as strong as they had hoped. For a while she 
had enjoyed her companion very much, and 
written one glowing note that Helen had 
smiled over, that would have wounded her if 
she had loved Daisy deeply. She was glad 
for Willard to have a new interest, even if 
it was only temporary. There could be no 
Christmas invitation to the Bells', and that re- 
lieved her. 
Just as the summons to dinner came, one of 
the seniors approached Miss Ferris and walked 
out with her through the corridor. 
“ Yes,” she said, “ yes, I will be there. 
Nine o'clock, sharp.” 
A matter like this was soon buzzed about. 
Most of the girls took it in the sense of 
amusement, but a few fell into arguments. It 
was history night after chapel, but the gym- 
nasium began to fill up promptly. It presented 
quite a different aspect from the previous eve- 
ning; the bars and trestles and rowing- 
machines were in place, and the end was 
shrouded in duskiness. Several girls were 
seated at a long table; the others crowded 
about, eager to learn what was to be done. 
After the preliminaries were through, the 
chairman announced the purpose of the meet- 
ing. Six girls were to be appointed on the 
Democratic side, six on the Republican, and 
each was to bring forward the most cogent 
arguments for her side. The leaders were to 
be Miss Hamilton and Miss Ferris. The de- 
bate would occupy two evenings, six speakers 
each night. Everybody in favor of this was 
requested to vote. The ayes were uproarious ; 
not a dissenting voice. They were to consider 
the remaining speakers, and vote on them 
Saturday afternoon. Each side was to select 
its strongest girl, and each girl to take up one 
of the most prominent points of her party. 
The meeting on Saturday was wildly en- 
thusiastic. There had been much electioneer- 
ing during the three days, though on the first 
ballot there was considerable scattering. 
 
Professor Bowne, who was a pronounced 
suffragist, and several of the other teachers 
were present. 
“ I really must congratulate you upon the 
order of your meeting,” Miss Bowne said, 
graciously. “ College training is beginning to 
show in several ways. It would be possible 
to educate women politically, in spite of the 
sneers and slurs that are often flung out. They 
need a good groundwork to know where they 
stand and why this foundation is more secure 
than any other.” 
There was a sudden interest in congressional 
reports, in the books on finance, trade, taxa- 
tion. 
“ There's such a little time that all you 
girls must send in whatever fact you find; 
anything from Carey and Porter and Calhoun 
and Mr. Gladstone and John Mill and some 
of our own senators, whatever makes for my 
side, which is free trade and lower taxation, 
and whatever interferes with freedom of in- 
dustry and the best markets. Let us get our 
first debate in order, before we go at the sec- 
ond. That will be on the night the question 
is settled,” and the speaker laughed. “ We 
shall not hear in some days unless it is a 
rousing victory for our side.” 
“ Girls, we ought to have an illumination 
and a procession for the side that wins. Are 
any of us brave enough to interview the pres- 
ident?” 
They looked at each other in consternation 
at first. 
“ I think that would take more courage than 
going to the polls and dropping in a vote,” 
said one of the seniors. 
“ Courage to meet an emergency is one of 
the first steps toward our emancipation,” de- 
clared Miss Bowne. “ But if you will em- 
power me, I will present the case in your 
behalf.” 
“ A committee of the juniors should go,” 
said Miss Ferris with decision. 
“Oh, no! Miss Bowne! Miss Bowne!” 
cried a host of voices. 
Miss Ferris straightened herself and looked 
displeased. 
“ We have the best-looking leader,” whis- 
pered Miss Brooks. “ And it has been said 
 
that women would vote for the handsomest 
candidate irrespective of merit, which is a 
libel, of course; we have more principle.” 
“ Miss Ferris wouldn’t,” Helen said, deci- 
sively. 
“ It would depend on whether her party put 
him up. Still it would be a sort of bitter pill. 
She is thoroughly honest in her beliefs.” 
“ One’s beliefs may not always be right.” 
That was true enough, Helen thought. 
For a proposal beginning in jest, the plan 
of the discussion created a wonderful interest. 
The lecture-room was offered to the juniors, 
and the plan of the procession approved of 
under certain restrictions. There was to be 
no undue triumphing over the losing side. 
There was a throng going to the lecture- 
room on Saturday. The tennis meet had been 
in the morning; also the botany club. Girls 
dressed in holiday attire to do credit to “ our 
class.” There was also a sprinkling of seniors 
and a number of under classmen, women 
rather. It quite appalled the committee. 
The chairman announced the purpose of the 
meeting and introduced the first speaker, Miss 
Ferris, who glanced calmly about the audience, 
seeming in no wise disturbed by the familiar 
faces of teachers. Her black gown was just 
 
relieved at throat and wrists with a line of 
white. She was statuesque rather than stiff, 
and so thoroughly convinced of her own ar- 
guments that there was not the slightest hesi- 
tation in explaining what her party had done 
for the country since its earliest infancy, and 
what policies the present candidate had pro- 
posed to carry out to the great advancement 
along lines of certain prosperity. Every 
woman had an interest in this, wives, mothers, 
young women in training for the duties of life. 
She had a clear, decisive voice, and there was 
no hesitancy in her manner. Her words were 
well chosen, her arguments were clear as far 
as they went, and her air of earnest conviction 
made them apparently cover the ground. 
Miss Hamilton was more sprightly, and 
brought to the fore an inspiriting air of pa- 
triotism. She, too, had her tale of hard-won 
victories to recount, of what the party had 
saved the country from, of its glowing aims 
for the future, and she moved her audience to 
applause. 
Then followed schemes of taxation, one 
flatly contradicting the other, and both mak- 
ing points and dropping into fallacies. Plans 
of other nations in raising revenue were ex- 
ploited, and the discussion closed amid great 
applause. 
kk But I do not think you were as convinc- 
ing as you might have been, Gertie. I wanted 
Miss Ferris routed altogether.” 
“ The truth lies between two extremes,” 
she returned, sententiously. “ I’m saving up 
some of my ammunition to the last. Oh, you’ll 
be amazed at Miss Corsen’s protective tariff 
arguments! She goes way back to the times 
of Greece and quotes Aristophanes, who sati- 
rizes the Achanians, who, because they burned 
charcoal, were not ready to have free trade 
forced upon them by war. It’s simply im- 
mense. And old Carthage was strong for 
protection.” 
“ Well, but oughtn’t countries, like individ- 
uals, to improve? Don’t we know more than 
those old Carthaginians ? I always feel mad 
at them because they treated Hannibal so at 
the last.” 
“ But our difference is between M. and N. 
Which will make the better President? 
 
“ The man with the better party back of 
him. After all, Congress is the great thing.” 
“ The Democratic party upheld slavery, any- 
how. I can say it outside,” and the speaker's 
cheeks turned very red. “ I wouldn’t be 
a — ” 
“ Hush! You know we were to taboo per- 
sonalities, and slavery, and the Civil War. It 
is just the politics of to-day.” 
“ But I want the whole truth told. I 
thought of some telling points Miss Hamilton 
might have made. Men don’t scruple to say 
things, and see what scathing articles are in 
the newspapers.” 
“ We are going to put politics on a new 
basis, a cleaner, more generous foundation. It 
is to be principles, not men.” 
“ Not a man ! ” cried some one in a whim- 
sical tone. “ The women are to get the fat 
offices.” 
“ They won’t know how to fill them. They 
can’t rise to heights of political consideration.” 
“ Why, they are doing it out in the new 
States, and no great cataclysm has occurred.” 
“ Women are essentially narrow.” 
“ College education is to broaden them out.” 
“ I don’t care about the broadening. 
Women will be Democrats and Republicans, 
and so long as my party beats, I shall be sat- 
isfied. Oh, girls, to think election is only a 
week and two days off ! It makes me tremble 
to think of it ! ” 
“ A specimen of the new woman ! ” 
“ Well, I don’t care to be an old woman just 
yet. And the large-minded, public-spirited 
men are saying and printing all sorts of slan- 
ders about each other.” 
“ Will they pick the women candidates to 
pieces that way, and rake up all the silly and 
wrong things their fathers and grandfathers 
did? If so, I am not for women’s suffrage.” 
There were lessons and exercises to think 
about; the Christmas exams would come so 
soon afterward. But there was a distracting 
interest in the great contest now that they were 
warmed up, and they said sharp and satirical 
things to each other, some quoting from the 
papers of the day. It was rather consoling to 
pay off some old scores under this cover. 
Their second line of argument was listened 
to with much attention and applause. If any- 
thing, the tariff speakers made the best show- 
ing. 
“ And now the great question is settled,” 
they said as they wended their way to their 
rooms, inviting compeers in to partake of tea 
and various refreshments, and talk it over. 
The little parties happily were mostly of the 
same belief, so they were the more amicable. 
Everybody made a rush for the papers the 
next morning. There was the glowing head- 
line : Great Republican Victory Assured. 
A shout went up; more than half of the 
juniors came from Republican families. 
Miss Ferris took the defeat of her party 
with great calmness. “ The right often fails,” 
she said with a sort of grand composure, “ but 
it wins in the end.” 
“ My idea is that one party isn’t so very 
much nearer right than the other, and it seems 
there must always be two parties.” 
“ I hope it will not be a bad experience for 
you girls,” said Miss Morse. “ I consider it 
a good thing, for it has set you to looking 
up some truths about your country and the 
methods and policies that come home to you 
in a different manner than from the mere 
study of text-books. I was afraid at first it 
might create some disturbance, but you all 
deserve much credit. Perhaps politics for 
women may not be such an impossibility. 
Now, for the next four years, you must follow 
the politics of your party and its chief men 
and see how near they come to the campaign 
promises.” 
There was great rejoicing. The winning 
party had their procession. They had worked 
upon transparencies, they had borrowed flags, 
even from their less successful neighbors. 
There was a band with numerous fifes and 
several horns, with mouthpieces and even two 
large jew’s-harps, very well played, triangles, 
and a tambourine. Every patriotic girl placed 
a light, and some several, in her window. All 
the college buildings were illuminated, and it 
was an inspiriting sight, for the successful 
candidate was a man of the highest integrity 
and irreproachable morals, worthy of the es- 
teem of the whole country. 
Although Miss Ferris took her defeat 
 
calmly, there was no light in her window, and 
she did not even view the merrymaking, but 
sat in her room and studied. 
“ One party always has to lose,' said the 
spokesman of a group of girls, philosophically. 
“ And it would be queer if we were mad at the 
other party when we lose at any of the 
games.’ 
“ But there isn’t any real principle involved 
in that; only honesty and fair play.” 
“ Well, I think honesty a big principle. 
And now I’m going in for the fun of the pro- 
cession. It won’t do the defeated party any 
good for a few college girls to sit and mope 
and chew the cud of bitter reflection or disap- 
pointment.” 
“ The country has always been going to 
ruin under every change of administration; 
yet, it holds up its head and goes on prosper- 
ing, and I notice the men who have said bitter 
things and the men who have been berated 
are friends afterward,” said Miss Hamilton. 
“ Few of the dire predictions materialize. 
And we must remember the safeguard of hav- 
ing two parties.” 
“ But where a king or emperor rules — ” 
suggested a listener. 
“ Except in autocratic Russia or a govern- 
ment like Turkey, you will find two parties.” 
“ Why, yes. Look at the Blouse of Com- 
mons and the French and the Germans, and 
how the minorities make their power felt after 
awhile. But we must get ready to process. 
“ Light your lanterns, beat your drums, 
We have done the greatest sums.” 
“We!” exclaimed a girl, scornfully. 
“ Wait until we have suffrage ! ” 
“ I’m not going to wait for anything so 
far off. I’ll take my fun now, and then, too, 
if there is any to be had.” 
They lighted the transparencies and lan- 
terns and marched around all the halls and 
several of the buildings, responding to cheers 
and cheering wildly themselves. They 
marched out to the president’s residence, and 
although it was a rather crisp autumn night, 
the broad piazza was filled with professors, 
post-graduates, and not a few of the seniors. 
As they paused in excellent order, being on 
their best behavior as representative college 
 
girls, the president stepped forward and gave 
them a little speech, quite complimentary, re- 
joicing with them on the success of their can- 
didate, as well as that of the majority of the 
country. Then the wildest of cheers went up, 
and they filed slowly by. 
“ It’s been great fun all the way through,” 
said Betty Gamier. “ If this is a taste of 
politics, I don’t wonder the men like a whole 
meal of it when they win the right to the 
feast. But I want to go in and hug a steam- 
pipe and have some hot chocolate. It’s been 
heavenly weather, though; the most beautiful 
autumn I have ever seen. And, girls, if it 
will only be nice until Saturday! ” 
“ Why, we want Saturday as well. I’ve 
been tackling the second hurdle and have it 
about perfect. And, Helen Grant, you are in 
the races. You’ll have to look sharp, too.” 
“ A run to bed would be most comforting 
to me,” was the laughing reply. 
“ But you must stop and get good and 
warm.” 
They huddled over radiators, laughing and 
jesting. There was a fragrance of tea and 
chocolate and toasting crackers. The largest 
rooms were taking in the feasters, who sat al- 
most on each other’s knees and filled the 
floor. 
Helen had been very much occupied all 
day, and now, tired and sleepy, she tumbled 
into bed. She could not go over her lessons 
now; she must rise early the next morning, 
was her last conscious thought. 
She was enjoying college life so much 
among the juniors. The crudenesses of girl- 
hood had been toned down by new experiences 
and wider knowledge. There was more am- 
bition ; there was a pervading pride in the 
honor of the college; there was more intel- 
lectual stimulus in the pleasant routine of 
study and diversion, and in the social inter- 
course. For various reasons she had not 
joined in this last so much in her freshman 
year; she had a more vivid general interest, 
and a finer degree of appreciation. She would 
find a quality she admired in a girl who might 
be quite deficient in some other line, and yet 
she liked her, and was glad to be liked in turn. 
She and Lorraine were very warm friends. 
 
Helen slept late the next morning and had 
barely time to glance over the earliest lessons. 
There were some bad breaks in the classes, but 
no one seemed to take them deeply to heart. 
She spent her noontime going over some ex- 
ercises with Lorraine, who seemed rather lan- 
guid. 
“ How generous you are,’’ the girl said, 
reaching over and leaning lightly on Helen’s 
shoulder. “ I hope I shall never bore you with 
my shortcomings. I wish I had your certainty 
about everything. Other girls are confident ; 
you are sure.” 
“ But I study to be sure. My heart was up 
in my throat this morning. I really think I 
should have missed if some points had been 
demanded of me.” 
The afternoon was all excitement again. 
Saturday was really a junior field-day, the last 
of the season, and there were plans to discuss 
and various matters to settle. Girls were ex- 
ercising, and the one anxious hope of all was 
that there would be no rain on Saturday. 
“ We can’t count on this weather, for we 
have had such a bountiful supply of it. And 
then, girls, Thanksgiving and skating and 
snow and Christmas ! ” 
“ And tests and worries as to how one 
stands. I wish we were back in October.” 
“ I’m ready for Christmas any time,” 
laughed a light-hearted girl. “ I don’t count 
on getting into the seniors. There’s no hurry 
for me to get through.” 
Helen had taken a decided fancy to athletics, 
while in her first year the gymnasium had 
rather bored her. She knew now it was more 
the class of girls than real lack of interest in 
the exercise. She had protested at first, how- 
ever, at being put on any of the lists, since 
there were sophomores who had done meri- 
torious work. 
All was eagerness to catch the first glimpse 
of the morning. There were long level bars 
of light with a few clouds drifting about, then 
a hazy dull-gold sun still suggestive of Indian 
summer appeared. Feet scampered up and 
down the corridor ; there were bangs at doors 
that could only be made with the heel of a 
shoe in a determined hand. Yes, it would be 
a day made to order. 
 
“ Take a good stout breakfast to fortify 
yourself," advised more than one to the 
athletes. 
Spectators began to gather and occupy the 
seats in the long rectangle, friends of the 
near-by pupils. A rope was extended along 
the track to reserve plenty of room, but eager 
faces pressed closely up to it. Each girl had 
her warm adherents, and a committee had pre- 
pared prizes for the winners. 
There was some fine vaulting, and the run- 
ning jumps were very well executed. Only 
two stumbled and failed to recover promptly. 
There was a burst of clapping and applause 
that fairly rent the air, but two were so evenly 
matched that it was hard to distinguish the 
winner. 
There was a breathing space for the audi- 
ence, and guesses ran round as to who would 
be best at the hurdles. Several fell out at the 
third one, more at the fourth, and there was 
only one, who was greeted with immense ap- 
plause, at the finish. Then all eyes were 
turned to the girls in their blue suits with 
white trimmings, ready for the starter’s sig- 
nal. 
They were off like a flash, at first in a 
straight line across, scarcely swerving, skim- 
ning lightly along, two of them using some 
unnecessary vigor and growing rosy every 
minute. All eyes were eagerly turned on them, 
for none of them seemed to gain any advan- 
tage. They had made more than half the dis- 
tance when the first one lagged a little. The 
others were cheered on by a burst of applause. 
“ Ada Foster will win, of course. She made 
a minute on the record yesterday, and you 
know she won for the sophomores in the tests 
with last year’s juniors. Miss Grant goes 
splendidly. Now it lies between them.” 
The second girl had lost a few paces and 
was swinging her arms like a windmill in the 
desire for recovery. The third point was 
passed. Helen, of course, desired to do credit 
to her coterie of friends, who had been so in- 
sistent that she should enter, but she had 
. hardly hoped to win. She heard her com- 
panion’s step lag a trifle, and her breathing was 
more strenuous. How many times back in 
 
Hope she had run races with the boys and 
beaten some of the best of them! She heard 
Aunt Jane’s voice again in its ungraciousness, 
“ Oh, yes, if you’d go about the work as you 
do running with the boys, it would be worth 
while!” 
Faster! faster! Helen seemed to have 
wings to her feet. The bar before her ap- 
peared to enlarge and rise up out of her reach. 
She made one grasp at it before it vanished. 
One, two, three, four, five seconds before Ada, 
flushed and wild-eyed, touched it. Helen was 
too generous to turn her face, and felt almost 
sorry for her rival as the plaudits rang out. 
The umpire stepped to the front and 
pounded lustily on it with her gavel. After 
a moment the cheering died down in eager 
attention. 
“ Miss Grant has broken the record by 
three seconds ; won by five. We are proud of 
our new champion.” 
There was an uproar again wild enough for 
a boys’ college. Girls evidently had good 
lungs. Then they indulged in the class yell, 
and all was confusion as groups pressed for- 
ward to congratulate Helen and introduce her 
to that and this friend. Some of the mothers 
and sisters had come up from Bedford, and 
there were a number of masculines. 
“ My foot turned,” Ada was explaining to 
her circle. “ Then I gave up, although I was 
so near the goal. I’m sorry I disappointed you 
girls, and I lost my own time by two seconds. 
But you see it was just a speeding between 
ourselves, and was not as if we had challenged 
the seniors, or anything, and it really doesn’t 
count. Before next June, Miss Grant will 
likely lose it. And the prizes, you know, are 
not important.” 
Still Ada Foster was deeply mortified, for 
she had been very sure of success, and her 
aim was to hold the class championship all the 
year. 
Helen was escorted around the circle in 
triumph. There was a crowd in the gymna- 
sium when the class president, who this year 
was Miss Van Duyne, made a felicitious 
speech and distributed the prizes, which were 
not very grand, to be sure. Helen hurried to 
her room, took a good rub-down, and gowned 
herself for luncheon. 
“ I’m so proud of you,” Lorraine declared. 
“ And I am so glad you are my chum. Half 
the girls are envying me! ” 
“ You'll make me vainer than a peacock,” 
Helen replied with a bright, wholesome laugh. 
“ But when you look at your feet you won’t 
have to drop your plumage,” was the arch 
reply. “ You have such splendid health and 
strength, Helen, and to-day the feet deserve 
all credit.” 
“ The feet had a master. I didn’t think of 
winning, truly, until that last quarter. And 
then I tried with all my might, a sort of self- 
ish might, wasn’t it? ” 
“ Why, no. For the honor of the class you 
were to do your best.’’ 
“But just a foot-race! And the many 
splendid intellectual matters one might excel 
in. I almost envy the girls who can write 
fine poems.” 
The girls were waiting in the corridor to 
squeeze her hand and say delightful things, 
and several girls were brave enough to kiss 
her. Helen had not encouraged effusiveness; 
some of the sentimental girls disgusted her. 
“ Now we must go to town this afternoon,” 
declared Miss Grainger. “ I want some music 
I have ordered, and Strong & Alden have a 
show of moving pictures — free at that. Let’s 
make a party and storm the town.” 
A crowd of girls eagerly assented, though 
more than one felt conscience-smitten at chos- 
ing between pleasure and study. But Satur- 
days came only once a week, while one had to 
study every day. 
Lorraine was eager to go, as she had a few 
articles to purchase. Helen really felt that she 
was pushed in the forefront by the plan, so it 
would not do for her to decline. She was 
fond of pleasure, too. 
They did have a gay time. Strong & Alden 
had almost what one might call a department 
store, an innovation in the pretty town. They 
had also a branch library, occasionally an ex- 
hibition of pictures, and a music-room, with 
a polite young clerk, an attraction to the col- 
lege girls. Moving pictures were quite a new 
thing and aroused a good deal of curiosity. 
 
Every half-hour they were put in motion. 
Some of the girls had not seen them at all. 
They were just in time for one display. It 
did seem wonderful ; trees waving in the wind, 
birds flying, a barn-yard with cattle moving 
about, and a flock of chickens. There was also 
a regatta on the river, and the girls could 
hardly refrain from cheering the winning boat. 
Last of all was the renowned chariot-race, and 
then everybody applauded. 
They dawdled over the shopping and bought 
various ornamental things that they would be 
puzzled to find space for; then went to the 
confectioner’s to lay in a stock of sweets, and 
through into the clean, pretty parlor for 
refreshments. 
“ It is to be a Dutch treat,’  announced Miss 
Van Duyne. “No girl is to suffer for an- 
other’s extravagance, but if you are madly 
wild to treat a friend and waste your money, 
that will be your own affair.” 
“ Except Miss Grant. We ought all to send 
her some choice bit,” declared one girl. 
“ Miss Grant is my particular guest,” an- 
nounced Miss Denman. “ I am to see that 
she keeps herself in good order. Let us re- 
member dinner and the variety of Saturday 
night desserts, and have a due regard for our 
pocketbooks as well as our stomachs.” 
Two or three clapped their thumb-nails in 
applause. 
“ ‘ Man, says the sage of Ecclefechan, ‘ is 
not a happy animal, his appetite for sweet 
victual is so enormous. ’ Did he mean to in- 
clude women? ” 
“ I think he knew nothing about college 
girls. He could not have refrained from a 
scathing diatribe if he had.” 
“ When your mind weakens and drops 
down, a dose of Carlyle is a good tonic. You 
fight every step of the way and are the better 
for it. But to our sweets, and then home, or 
we shall be late for dinner.” 
CHAPTER V 
FRIENDS AND A CHRISTMAS CONFIDENCE 
Helen was conscious of a desire as well as 
a preference for pretty things about her. 
Some girls made shrines of beauty out of their 
rooms, had hangings and cushions and rugs, 
a jardiniere with a pot of flowers, a tea-table 
with the choicest china they could afford, book- 
shelves with some fine editions of poets, and 
portfolios of engravings. She had been se- 
verely plain her first year, largely out of regard 
for her roommate, and then, also, she had not 
really cared for so much adornment. She 
had not spent all her allowance, as she wished 
to have a little left when her college life was 
over. But now that she had skipped one year 
she did not need to study economy so closely. 
It was a pleasure to indulge in a choice bit 
of something, although it was almost a dupli- 
cate of an article in her room at Miss- Craven’s. 
Her social side was developing as well. She 
liked the bright talk, the gay jests, the plans, 
the desperate attempts at verse that often de- 
generated into the ridiculous, the tough trans- 
lations, the classifying of temperaments, even 
of nerves and faults, yet still keeping a scrupu- 
lous regard for the personal equation. There 
were girls, she found, who wasted their energy 
on trifles, who spent time bemoaning a difficult 
task or problem, and then were obliged to 
hurry through with it only half-digested. 
There were girls who seemed to have come to 
college because home was dull and tiresome, 
and it was a rather fascinating way of passing 
a few years. What a curious little world it 
was ! 
Some girls went home for Thanksgiving, 
starting the night before and bound to return 
early Friday morning. There was a college 
feast, to be sure, and much eating of philo- 
penas as they lingered around the second des- 
sert. The seniors gave an amusing little play, 
and they wound up with a dance in the enter- 
tainment hall. 
And now most girls began to take stock of 
 
their attainments for examination. There was 
the college Miscellany to be gotten in order 
for January; also teas to be given for the 
last time, as if no one would come back after 
Christmas. The weather had come off cold, 
and there was a wild fervor of skating. The 
various plans, too, were enough to drive one 
wild, as well as the endless discussion of 
Christmas gifts, the running into Bedford for 
silk and ribbons and stamped book-covers to 
work. 
A crowd was in Miss Denman’s room in 
eager discussion. 
A girl, settled on a gray furry rug, clasp- 
ing her knees with both arms and rocking 
to and fro, her fuzzy light hair making an 
aureole about her face, stopped her motion so 
suddenly that she tilted over the girl next to 
her. 
“ I’m sick and tired of the whole thing! It’s 
a humbug! I’ve flunked twice, I have to write 
a thesis over, my little poem has been flung 
out in disdain, and all because I’ve tried to 
work a centrepiece for my brother’s betrothed. 
She is coming to spend Christmas with us, 
and my sister really insisted that we should 
all give to her an article we had made our- 
selves. She sent me the centrepiece to work 
at odd spells; as if a collegian ever had odd 
spells except when her temper ran up to sum- 
mer heat. It’s about half-done. They are to 
be married at Easter and go to housekeeping. 
She has no end of cousins, some very well- 
to-do, although she is an only child and not at 
all rich. And there will be lots of lovely arti- 
cles given her, no doubt. I'm glad of the cut- 
glass fashion, for you don’t have to make 
that.” 
“ It is a nuisance to be making things. I 
like books, if they don’t duplicate what you 
already own. And handkerchiefs are nice, 
and never do come amiss. But when you 
have a ton of friends — ” in a complaining 
tone. 
“ They lie heavy on you,” responded some 
one, sententiously. 
“ There is quite too much present-giving 
for slim purses. Miss Grant, air your ideas.” 
“ I echo yours heartily,” Helen said in an 
eager tone. “We ought to be brave enough 
to judge and act for ourselves. I think we 
are too much afraid of what the other party 
will say. And I want to announce just here 
that I shall more than anything appreciate the 
gift of a pretty Christmas card, because I 
know it is not costly and no girl has sat up 
o’ nights to paint a picture or work a book- 
cover, and has not cudgelled her brains as to 
what she shall give me.” 
“ Bravo ! Let us pass the resolution among 
the juniors : a fine for sending anything larger 
than a Christmas card. I do really think they 
are coming in again. There were loads of 
them at Easter. Miss Grant, thanks for your 
suggestion. Girls, a card or nothing. And 
even at that high practice of economy, I don’t 
know that I shall have enough to go round. 
College isn’t a cheap place.” 
“ Cut the girls. Every one has a family; 
I suppose we have a duty to them. I’m going 
home to the family bosom. I will be their 
Christmas present for the next ten days. Will 
not that be enough ? ” 
That caused a general laugh, as Hilda Lee 
turned the scale at a hundred and forty. 
“ Girls, there will be dinner in ten minutes. 
Scamper ! ” 
“ Can we come back afterward? ” 
“No,” answered Lorraine, promptly. 
“ Helen and I have a singing practice after 
chapel, and then I have a paper to read on the 
old Hebrews that makes my head spin until 
I wish they had shared Pharaoh’s fate in the 
Red Sea.” 
The girls went reluctantly. Helen had 
changed her dress, and as she studied her 
friend said : 
“ You look tired to death, Lorraine.” 
“ I am. I wish to-morrow was the last 
day.” 
