palm-fringed shores and silver sands; the awful majesty of volcanic
islands, torn and racked by earthquake, eaten by fire, sometimes
rising so abruptly from the sea as to imply a second half split to
its base and hurled to the depths. But although there had been much to
delight and awe, the wine in her cup had not risen to the brim until
she came in sight of Nevis, whose perfection of form and colour, added
to the interest her gifted and unhappy son had inspired, made her seem
to eager romantic eyes the incarnation of all the loveliness of all
the tropics. To-night Anne could forget even Byam Warner, who indeed
had never seemed so far away, and she only went within when the cloud
rolled down Nevis and enveloped her, as if in rebuke of those that
would gaze upon her beauty too long.




CHAPTER IV


Anne started from the sound unhaunted sleep of youth conscious that
some one had entered her room and stood by her bed. It proved to be a
grinning barefoot coloured maid with coffee, rolls, and a plate of
luscious fruit. Anne's untuned ear could make little of the girl's
voluble replies to her questions, for the West Indian negroes used one
gender only, and made a limited vocabulary cover all demands. But she
gathered that it was about half-past-five o'clock, and that the loud
bell ringing in the distance informed the world of Nevis that it was
market day in Charlestown.

She had been shown the baths the day before and ran down-stairs to the
great stone tanks, enjoyed her swim in the sea water quite alone, and
returned to her room happy and normal, not a dream lingering in her
brain. As she dressed herself she longed for one of those old frocks
in which she had taken comfort at Warkworth, but even had not all her
ancient wardrobe been diplomatically presented by Mrs. Nunn to the
servants of their London lodging, she knew that it was due to her aunt
that she present herself at breakfast attired as a young lady of the
first fashion. She therefore accommodated herself to a white Indian
muslin ruffled to the waist and sweeping the ground all round. The
bodice was long and tight, exposing the neck, which Anne covered with
a white silk scarf. She put on her second best bonnet, trimmed with
lilac flowers instead of feathers, the scoop filled with blonde and
mull, and tied under the chin with lilac ribbons. Her waist, encircled
by a lilac sash of soft India silk looked no more than eighteen inches
round, and she surveyed herself with some complacency, feeling even
reconciled to the curls, as they modified the severity of her brow and
profile, bringing both into closer harmony with her full mouth and
throat.

"But what's the use?" she thought, with a whimsical sigh. "I mean
never to marry, so men cannot interest me, and it would be the very
irony of fate to make a favourable impression on a poet we wot of. So,
it all comes to this: I look my best to gratify the vanity of my aunt.
Well, let it pass."

She drew on her gloves and ran down-stairs, meeting no one. As she
left the hotel and stood for a few moments on the upper terrace she
forgot the discomforts of fashion. The packet had arrived late in the
afternoon, there had been too much bustle to admit of observing the
island in detail, even had the hour been favourable, but this morning
it burst upon her in all its beauty.

The mountain, bordered with a strip of silver sands and trimmed with
lofty palms, rose in melting curves to the height of three thousand
feet and more, and although the most majestic of the Caribbees, there
was nothing on any part of it to inspire either terror or misgiving.
The exceeding grace of the long sweeping curves was enhanced by
silvery groves of lime trees and fields of yellow cane. Green as
spring earlier in the winter, at this season of harvest Nevis looked
like a gold mine turned wrong side out. The "Great Houses," set in
groves of palm and cocoanut, and approached by avenues of tropical
trees mixed with red and white cedars, the spires of churches
rising from romantic nooks, their heavy tombs lost in a tangle of
low feathery palms, gave the human note without which the most
resplendent verdure must pall in time; and yet seemed indestructibly a
part of that jewelled scene. High above, where cultivation ceased, a
deep collar of evergreen trees encircled the cone, its harsh stiff
outlines in no wise softened by the white cloud hovering above the
summit. Charlestown spread along the shore of a curving bay, its many
fine buildings and infinite number of huckster shops, its stately
houses and negro village alike shaded by immense banana trees, the
loftier cocoanut, and every variety of palm.

Anne, as she gazed, concluded that if choice were demanded, it must
be given to the royal palm and the cane fields. The former rose, a
splendid silvery shaft, to a great height, where it spread out into a
mass of long green blades shining like metal in the sun. But the cane
fields! They glittered a solid mass of gold on all visible curves of
the mountain. When the dazzled eye, grown accustomed to the sight
which no cloud in the deep blue tempered, separated it into parts, it
was but to admire the more. The cane, nearly eight feet in height,
waxed from gold to copper, where the long blade-like leaves rose
waving from the stalk. From the centre of the tip shot out a silver
wand supporting a plume of white feathers, shading into lilac. The
whole island, rising abruptly out of the rich blue waters of the sea,
looked like a colossal jewel that might once have graced the diadem of
the buried continent.

The idea pleased Anne Percy at all events, and she lingered a few
moments half dazed by the beauty about her and wholly happy. And
on the terraces and in the gardens were the flowers and shrubs of
the tropics, whose perfumes were as sweet as their colours were
unsurpassed; the flaming hydrangea, the rose-shaped Arabian jasmine,
the pink pluminia, the bright yellow acacia, the scarlet trumpet
flower, the purple and white convolvulus, the silvery white blossoms
of the lime tree, framed with dark green leaves.

Anne shook herself out of her dream, descended the terraces, and
walked down a narrow avenue of royal palms to the town. She could hear
the "Oyez! Oyez!" of the criers announcing the wares brought in from
the country, and, eager for the new picture, walked as rapidly as her
fine frock would permit. She was obliged to hold up her long and
voluminous skirts, and her sleeves were so tight that the effort
cramped her arms. To stride after her usual fashion was impossible,
and she ambled along anathematising fashion and resolved to buy some
cotton in the town and privately make several short skirts in which
she could enjoy the less frequented parts of Nevis while her aunt
slept. Without realising it, for nothing in her monotonous life had
touched her latent characteristics, she was essentially a creature of
action. Even her day-dreams had been energetic, and if they had filled
her life it was because they had the field to themselves. In earlier
centuries she would have defended one of the castles of her ancestors
with as much efficiency and spirit as any man among them, and had she
been born thirty years later she would certainly have entered one
of the careers open to women, and filled her life with active
accomplishment. But she knew little of female careers, save, to be
sure, of those dedicated to fashion, which did not interest her; and
less of self-analysis. But she felt and lived in the present moment
intensely. For twenty-two years she had dwelt in the damp and windy
North, and now the dream of those years was fulfilled and she was
amidst the warmth and glow of the tropics. It was the greatest
happiness that life had offered her and she abandoned herself to it
headlong.

As she entered the capital she suddenly became aware that she was
holding her skirts high over her hoop in a most unladylike manner. She
blushed, shook them down, and assumed a carriage and gait which would
have been approved by even the fastidious Mrs. Nunn. But she was no
less interested in the animated scene about her. The long street
winding from the Court House to the churchyard on the farther edge of
the town was a mass of moving colour and a babel of sound. The women,
ranging from ebony through all the various shades of copper and olive
to that repulsive white where the dark blood seems to flow just
beneath the skin, and bedecked in all the violence of blues and
greens, reds and yellows, some in country costume, their heads covered
with kerchiefs, others in a travesty on the prevailing fashion, stood
in their shops or behind the long double row of temporary stalls,
vociferating at the passers by as they called attention to fowl,
meats, hot soup, fruit, vegetables, wild birds, fish, cigars, sugar
cakes, castor oil, cloth, handkerchiefs, and wood. Many of the early
buyers were negroes of the better class, others servants of the white
planters and of Bath House, come early to secure the best bargains.
Anne was solicited incessantly, even her skirts being pulled, for
since emancipation, four years before, the negro had lost his awe of a
white skin. It was some time before she could separate the gibberish
into words, but finally she made out: "Bargain! Bargain! Here's yo'
fine cowfee! Here's yo' pickled peppers! Come see! Come see! Only come
see! Make you buy. Want any jelly cocoanut? Any yams? Nice grenadilla.
Make yo' mouth water. Lady! Lady! Buy here! Very cheap! Very nice!
Real!"

Anne paused before a stall spread with cotton cloth and bought enough
for several skirts, the result of her complaisance being a siege of
itinerant vendors that nearly deafened her. The big women were
literally covered with their young ("pic'nees"), who clung to their
skirts, waist, hips, bosoms; and these mites, with the parrot
proclivities of their years and race added their shrill: "By'm, lady,
by'm!"

The proprietor of the cloth volubly promised to deliver the purchase
at Bath House and Anne fled down the street until she was stopped
by a drove of sheep whose owner was crying: "Oyez! Oyez! Come to the
shambles of Mr. Columbus Brown. Nice fat lambs and big fat sheep. Very
cheap! Very cheap!"

Anne retreated into a shop of some depth to avoid the dust. When the
drove had passed she was rescued by Lord Hunsdon, who lifted his broad
panama without smiling. He was a very serious looking young man, with
round staring anxious blue eyes under pent white brows, an ascetic
mouth and a benevolent dome. He was immaculate in white linen, and
less pinched about the waist than his fashionable contemporaries.

"I believe it is not considered quite de rigueur for young ladies
and young gentlemen to walk unchaperoned," he said diffidently; "but
in the circumstances I think I may come to your relief and escort you
back to the hotel."

"Not yet, please," Anne emerged and walked rapidly toward the edge of
the town. "I cannot go back and sit in the hotel till half past nine.
I am accustomed to a long walk before breakfast."

"But Mrs. Nunn----"

"She must get used to my tramps. I should fall ill if I gave them up.
Indeed, she is sadly aware that I am no fine lady, and no doubt will
shortly give me up. But if you are afraid of her, pray go back. I
recall, she said I was not to be escorted----"

"If you are determined to go on I shall accompany you, particularly as
I wish to talk to you on a subject of great importance. Have I your
permission?"

Quite lacking in vanity or worldliness, it was impossible that he
should be unaware of his importance as a young, wealthy, and unmarried
peer, and he shrewdly suspected that Mrs. Nunn would make an exception
in his favour on market day in Charlestown.

Anne, wondering what he could have to say to her, led the way past the
church to the open road that encircled the island. Then she moderated
her pace and looked up at him from the deeps of her bonnet. Her gaze
was cooler and more impersonal than he was wont to encounter, but it
crossed his burdened mind that a blooming face even if unfashionably
sunburnt, and a supple vigorous body were somewhat attractive after a
surfeit of dolls with their languid fine-lady airs and affectation of
physical delicacy; which he, being no fool, suspected of covering fine
appetites and stubborn selfishness. But while he was young enough to
admire the fresh beauty of his companion, it was the strength and
decision, the subtle suggestion of high-mindedness, in this young
lady's aspect, which had led him to a resolution that he now proceeded
to arrange in words as politic as might be.

"It may seem presumptuous to speak after so short an acquaintance----"

"Not after your rescue last night. I had like to have died of
embarrassment. I am not accustomed to have half a room gazing at me."

"You will," he said gallantly. "But it is kind of you to make it
easier. This is it. I have been--am--very unhappy about a friend of
mine here. Of course you know the work of one, who, many believe, is
our greatest poet--Byam Warner?"

Anne drew her breath in and her eyelashes together. "I have read his
poems," she said shortly.

"I see! Like many others you cannot dissociate the genius from the
man. Because a fatal weakness----"

"What have I said, pray, that you should jump to such a conclusion?"
She had recovered her breath but not her poise. "No one could admire
him more than I. About his private life I know little and care less.
He lives on this island, does he not?"

"We shall pass his house presently, but God knows if he is in it."

"He is a West Indian, is he not?"

"A scion of two of its foremost families, whose distinction by no
means began with their emigration to the Antilles. One of his
ancestors, Sir Thomas Warner, colonised most of these islands for the
crown--in the seventeenth century. A descendant living on Trinidad,
has in his possession the ring which Queen Elizabeth gave to
Essex--you recall my friend's poem and the magnificent invective put
into the frantic Queen's mouth at the bedside of Lady Nottingham? The
ring was presented to Sir Thomas by Charles I., on the eve of his
first expedition to these islands. The Byams are almost equally
notable, descended as they are from the father of Anne Boleyn, Earl of
Wiltshire and Ormond." The spirit of British democracy still slept in
the womb of the century, with board schools, the telegraph, and the
penny press, and the aristocrat frankly admitted his pride of birth
and demanded a corresponding distinction in his friends. "I hope I
have not bored you," continued the young nobleman anxiously; "But I
have given you some idea of Warner's pedigree that you may see for
yourself that the theory of generations of gentle blood and breeding,
combined with exceptional advantages, sometimes culminating in genius,
finds its illustration in him. Also, alas! that such men are too often
the prey of a highly wrought nervous system that coarser natures
and duller brains are spared. When he was younger--I knew him at
Cambridge--nor, indeed a few years since, he had not drained that
system; his youthful vigour immediately rushing in to resupply
exhausted conduits. But even earlier he was always disposed to drink
more than was good for him, and when a wretched woman made ducks and
drakes of his life some four or five years since, he became--well--I
shall not go into details. This is his house. It has quite a history.
Alexander Hamilton, an American statesman, was born in it. Have you
ever heard of him?"

"No--yes, of course I have read Warner's beautiful poem to his
mother--and--I recall now--when one of the Hamiltons of Cambuskeith, a
relative of my mother, visited us some years ago, he talked of this
Alexander Hamilton, a cousin of his father, who had distinguished
himself in the United States of America."

Hunsdon nodded. "Great pity he did not carry his talents to England
where they belonged. But this is the house where his parents lived
when he was born. It used to be surrounded by a high wall, but I
believe an earthquake flung that down before my friend's father bought
the place. Warner was also born here."

The old house, a fine piece of masonry, was built about three sides of
a court, in the centre of which was an immense banana tree whose lower
branches, as close as a thatched roof, curved but a few feet above the
ground. The front wall contained a wide gateway, which was flanked by
two royal palms quite a hundred feet in height. The large unkempt
garden at the side looked like a jungle in the hills, but was rich in
colour and perfume. The gates were open and they could see the
slatternly negro servants moving languidly about the rooms on the
ground floor, while two slept under the banana tree. A gallery
traversed the second story, its pillars covered with dusty vines. All
of the rooms of this story evidently opened upon the gallery, but
every door was closed. The general air of neglect and decay was more
pathetic to Anne, accustomed to exemplary housekeeping, than anything
she had yet heard of the poet. He was uncomfortable and ill-cared for,
no doubt of that. The humming-birds were darting about like living
bits of enamel set with jewels. The stately palms glittered like
burnished metal. Before the house, on the deep blue waters of the bay,
was a flotilla of white-sailed fishing-boats, and opposite was the
green and gold mass of St. Kitts, an isolated mountain chain rising as
mysteriously from the deep as the solitary cone of Nevis. She could
conceive of no more inspiring spot for a poet, but she sighed again as
she thought of the slatterns that miscared for him.

Lord Hunsdon echoed her sigh as they walked on. "Even here he
disappears for days at a time," he resumed. "Of course he does not
drink steadily. No man could do that in the tropics and live. But
spirits make a madman of him, and even when sober he now shuns the
vicinity of respectable people, knowing that they regard him as a
pariah. Of course his associates--well, I cannot go into particulars.
For a time I did not believe these stories, for each year brought a
volume from his pen, which showed a steady increase of power, and a
divine sense of beauty. Besides I have been much absorbed these last
few years. There seemed no loosening the hold of the Whigs upon the
destinies of England and it was every patriot's duty to work with all
his strength. You followed, of course, the tremendous battle that
ended in last year's victory. I was almost worn out with the struggle,
and when I found that these stories about Warner were persistent I
came out to investigate for myself. Alas! I had not heard the half. I
spent three months with him in that house. I used every argument,
every more subtle method I could command, to bring him to see the
folly and the wickedness of his course. I might as well have addressed
the hurricane. He did not even hate life. He was merely sick of it. He
was happy only when at work upon a new poem--intoxicated, of course.
When it was over he went upon a horrible bout and then sank into an
apathy from which no art of mine could rouse him; although I am bound
to add, in justice to one of the gentlest and most courteous souls I
have ever known, his civility as a host never deserted him. I was,
alas! obliged to return to England with nothing accomplished, but I
have come this year with quite another plan. Will you listen to it,
Miss Percy?"

"I am vastly interested." But she had little hope, and could well
conceive that three months of this good young man might have confirmed
the poet in his desire for oblivion.

"I persuaded my mother to come with me, although without avowing my
object. I merely expatiated upon the beauty and salubrity of Nevis,
and the elegant comforts of Bath House. Women often demand much
subtlety in the handling. We arrived by the packet that preceded
yours--two weeks ago, but I only yesterday broached my plan to her;
she stood the trip so ill, and then seemed to find so much delight in
long gossips with her old friends--a luxury denied her at home, where
politics and society absorb her. But yesterday I had a talk with her,
and this is my plan--that she should persuade herself and a number of
the other ladies that it is their duty to restore to Warner his lost
self-respect. For that I believe to be the root of the trouble, not
any real inclination to dissipation and low society. This restoration
can be accomplished only by making him believe that people of the
highest respectability and fashion desire, nay demand, his company.
As my mother knew him well in England it will be quite natural she
should write him a note asking him to take a dish of tea with her
and complimenting his latest volume--I brought it with me. If he
hesitates, as he well may do, she can call upon him with me, and,
while ignoring the cause, vow he has been a recluse long enough, and
that the ladies of Bath House are determined to have much of him. Such
a course must succeed, for, naturally the most refined of men, he must
long bitterly, when himself, for the society of his own kind. Then,
when the ice is broken, we will ask others to meet him----"

"And has your mother consented?"

"Practically. I have no doubt that she will. She is a woman who needs
a cause for her energies, and she never had a better one, not even
the restoration of the Tories and Sir Robert."

"And you wish me to meet him?"

"Particularly, dear Miss Percy. I feel sure he would not care for
any of these other young ladies. I happen to know what he thinks of
young ladies. But you--you are so different! I do not wish to be a
flatterer, like so many of my shallow kind, but I am sure that he
would appreciate the privilege of knowing you, would feel at his ease
with you. But of course it all depends upon Mrs. Nunn. She may
disapprove of your meeting one with so bad a name."

"Oh, she will follow Lady Hunsdon's cue, I fancy," said Anne,
repressing a smile. "They all do, do they not, even here? I hope the
poet does not wear Hyperion locks and a velvet smoking jacket."

"He used to wear his hair, and dress, like any ordinary gentleman. But
when I was here last year his wardrobe was in a shocking condition."
The immaculate Englishman sighed deeply. "He is totally demoralised.
Fortunately we are about the same figure. If all his clothes are gone
to seed I can supply him till he can get a box out from England. For
the matter of that there is a tailor here who makes admirable linen
suits, and evening clothes not badly----"

"Is he very fascinating?" asked Anne ingenuously. She had long since
recovered her poise. "My aunt has set her mind upon a high and mighty
marriage for me, and might apprehend----"

"Fascinating! Apprehend! Great heavens! He was handsome once, a beau
garçon,--no doubt fascinating enough. But now! He is a ruin. No woman
would look at him save in pity. But you must not think of that. It is
his soul I would save--that I would have you help me to save"--with a
glance into the glowing eyes which he thought remarkably like the blue
of the Caribbean sea, and eloquent of fearless youth. "His soul, Miss
Percy. I cannot, will not, let that perish for want of enterprise."

"Nor his fountain of song dry up," replied Anne, whose practical side
was uppermost. "He should write, and better and better for twenty
years to come."

"I should not care if he never wrote another line. I see a friend with
the most beautiful nature I have ever known--he has the essence of
the old saints and martyrs in him--going to ruin, wrecking all hopes
of happiness, mortal and immortal. I must save him! I must save him!"

Anne glanced at the flushed face of her companion. His expression was
almost fanatical, but as he turned suddenly and she met the intense
little blue eyes, something flashed in them in no wise resembling
fanaticism. She stiffened and replied coldly:

"You can count on me, of course. How could I refuse? But I have
sensations that assure me it is close upon the breakfast hour. Shall
we return?"




CHAPTER V


After breakfast, Mrs. Nunn, pretending to saunter through the saloon
and morning rooms with Anne, introduced her naturally to a number of
young people, and finally left her with a group, returning to the
more congenial society of Lady Hunsdon and Lady Constance Mortlake.

Anne, although shy and nervous, listened with much interest to the
conversation of these young ladies so near her own age, while taking
little part in it. The long windows opened upon an orchard of
cocoanuts and bananas, grenadillas and shaddocks, oranges and
pineapples, but in spite of the cool refreshing air, many of the girls
were frankly lounging, as became the tropics, others were turning the
leaves of the Journal des Modes, dabbling in water colours,
pensively frowning at an embroidery frame. Of the three young men
present one was absorbed in the Racing Calendar, another was making
himself generally agreeable, offering to read aloud or hold wool, and
a third was flirting in a corner with the sparkling Miss Bargarny.

All acknowledged Mrs. Nunn's introductions with much propriety and
little cordiality, for Anne was far too alert and robust, and
uncompromising of eye, to suit their modish taste. Nevertheless they
asked her politely what she thought of Nevis, and seemed satisfied
with her purposely conventional replies. Then the conversation drifted
naturally to the light and dainty accomplishments for which all save
herself professed a fondness; from thence to literature, where
much languid admiration was expressed of Disraeli's "Venetia," a
"performance of real elegance," and the latest achievement of the
exciting Mr. G. P. R. James. Dickens wrote about people one really
never had heard of, but Bulwer, of course, was one of themselves and
the equal of Scott. In poetry the palm was tossed between Mrs. Hemans
and L. E. L. on the one hand and that delightful impossible American,
Mr. Willis, and Barry Cornwall on the other. Young Tennyson received a
few words of praise. When the talk naturally swung to Byam Warner Anne
eagerly attended. Had he made a deep personal impression upon any of
these essentially feminine hearts? But the criticism of his poems was
as languid, affected, and undiscriminating as that of other work they
had pretended to discuss. They admired him, oh vastly! He was amazing,
a genius of the first water, the legitimate successor of Byron and
Shelley, to say nothing of Keats; he might easily surpass them all in
a few years. In short they rehearsed all the stock phrases which the
critics had set in motion years ago and which had been drifting about
ever since for the use of those unequal to the exertion of making
their own opinions, or afraid of not thinking with the elect. Had
Warner been falsely appraised by the higher powers their phrases would
have been nourished as faithfully; and Anne, with a movement of
irrepressible impatience, rose, murmured an excuse, and joined her
aunt.

Lady Hunsdon was a short, thin, trimly made woman, with small, hard,
aquiline features, piercing eyes, and a mien of so much graciousness
that had she been a shade less well-bred she would have been
patronising. She looked younger than her years in spite of her little
cap and the sedateness of attire then common to women past their
youth. Lady Constance Mortlake had the high bust and stomach of
advanced years; her flabby cheeks were streaked with good living. Her
expression was shrewd and humorous, however, and her eyes were kinder
than her tongue. Mrs. Nunn rose with vast ceremony and presented her
niece to these two august dames, and as Anne courtesied, Lady Hunsdon
said, smiling, but with a penetrating glance at the newcomer:

"My son tells me that he has acquainted you with our little plan to
reform the poet----"

"Our?" interrupted Lady Constance. "None of mine. I sit and look
on--as at any other doubtful experiment. I have no faith in the powers
of a parcel of old women to rival the seductions of brandy and Canary,
Madeira and rum."

"Parcel of old women! I shall ask the prettiest of the girls to hear
him read his poems in my sitting-room."

"Even if their mammas dare not refuse you, I doubt if the girls brave
the wrath of their gallants, who would never countenance their meeting
such a reprobate as Byam Warner----"

"You forget the despotism of curiosity."

"Well, they might gratify that by meeting him once, but they will
sound the beaux first. What do you suppose they come here for? Much
they care for the beauty of the tropics and sulphur baths. The tropics
are wondrous fine for making idle young gentlemen come to the point,
and there isn't a girl in Bath House who isn't on the catch. Those
that have fortunes want more, and most of them have too many brothers
to think of marrying for love. Their genius for matrimony has made
half the fame of Nevis, for they make Bath House so agreeable a place
to run to from the fogs of London that more eligibles flock here every
year. There isn't a disinterested girl in Bath House unless it be Mary
Denbigh, who has two thousand a year, has been disappointed in love,
and is twenty-nine and six months." She turned sharply to Anne, and
demanded:

"Have you come here after a husband?"

"If you will ask my aunt I fancy she will reply in the affirmative,"
said Anne, mischievously.

Mrs. Nunn coloured, and the others looked somewhat taken aback.

"That was not a very lady-like speech," said Mrs. Nunn severely.
"Moreover," with great dignity, "I have found your society so
agreeable, my dear, that I hope to enjoy it for several years to
come."

Anne, quick in response, felt repentant and touched, but Lady
Constance remarked drily:

"Prepare yourself for the worst, my dear Emily. I'll wager you this
purse I'm netting that Miss Percy will have the first proposal of the
season. She may differ from the prevailing mode in young ladies, but
she was fashioned to be the mother of fine healthy children; and young
men, who are human and normal au fond, whatever their ridiculous
affectations, will not be long in responding, whether they know what
is the matter with them or not."

Anne blushed at this plain speaking, and Mrs. Nunn bridled. "I wish
you would remember that young girls----"

"You told me yourself that she was two-and-twenty. She ought to have
three babies by this time. It is a shocking age for an unmarried
female. You have not made up your mind to be an old maid, I suppose?"
she queried, pushing up her spectacles and dropping her netting. "If
so, I'll turn matchmaker myself. I should succeed far better than
Emily Nunn, for I have married off five nieces of my own. Now don't
say that you have. You look as if it were on the tip of your tongue.
All girls say it when there is no man in sight. I shall hate you if
you are not as little commonplace as you look."

Anne shrugged her shoulders and said nothing, while Lady Hunsdon
remarked with her peremptory smile (this was one of a well known set):
"We have wandered far from the subject of Mr. Warner. Not so far
either, for my son tells me, Miss Percy, that you have kindly
consented to meet him--to help us, in fact. I hope you have no
objections to bring forward, Emily. I am very much set upon this
matter of reclaiming the poet. And as I can see that Miss Percy has
independence of character, and as I feel sure that she has not come to
Nevis on the catch, she can be of the greatest possible assistance to
me. What Constance says of the other young ladies is only too true.
They will pretend to comply, but gracefully evade any responsibility.
I can count upon none of them except Mary Denbigh, and she is rather
passée, poor thing."

"Passée?" cried Lady Constance. "At thirty? What do you expect? She
looks like an elegiac figure weeping on a tombstone. I can't stand the
sight of her. And it's all kept up to make herself interesting. Edwin
Hay has been dead eleven years----"

"Never mind poor Mary. We all know she is your pet abomination----"

"She gives me a cramp in my spleen."

"Well, to return to Mr. Warner. Will you all meet him when I ask him
to my sitting-room up-stairs? Will you spread the news of his coming
among the other guests? Hint that he has reformed? Excite in them a
desire to meet the great man?"

She did not speak in a tone of appeal, and there was a mounting fire
in her eye.

Lady Constance shrugged her shoulders. "You mean that you will cut
us if we don't. I never quarrel in the tropics. Besides, I have
buried too many of my old friends! I don't approve, but I shall be
interested, and my morals are as pure and solid as my new teeth. If
you can marry him to Mary Denbigh and leave her on the island----"

"And you, Emily?"

None had had more experience in yielding gracefully to social tyrants
than Mrs. Nunn. She thought Maria Hunsdon mad to take up with a
drunken poet, and could only be thankful that her charge was a
sensible, commonplace girl with no romantic notions in her head. "I
never think in the tropics, my dear Maria, and now that you are here
to think for me, and provide a little variety, so much the better.
What is your programme?"

"To ask him first for tea in my sitting-room, then for dinner; then
to organise picnics, and take him with us on excursions. I shall
frequently pick him up when I drive--in short before a fortnight has
passed he will be a respectable member of society, and accepted as a
matter of course."

"And what if he gets drunk?"

"That is what I purpose he shall not do. As soon as I know him well
enough I shall talk to him like a mother."

"Better let Miss Percy talk to him like a sister. Well, regulate the
universe to suit yourself. I hope you will not forget to order Nevis
to have no earthquakes this winter, particularly while we are cooking
our gouty old limbs in the hot springs. By the way, whom have you
decreed James shall marry?"

"I should not think of interfering in such a matter." Lady Hunsdon
spoke with her usual bland emphasis, but darted a keen glance at Anne.
It was not disapproving, for Miss Percy's descent was long, she liked
the splendid vitality of the girl, and Hunsdon had riches of his own.
But, far cleverer than Mrs. Nunn, she suspected depths which might
have little in common with her son, and a will which might make a
mother-in-law hate her. Lady Hunsdon loved peace, and wondered that
anyone should question her rigid rules for enforcing it. But of Anne
as a valuable coadjutor in the present instance there could be no
doubt, and, to do her justice, she anticipated no danger in the
meeting of a fine girl, full of eager interest in life, and the
demoralised being her son so pathetically described. She was quite
sincere in her desire to lift the gifted young man from his moral
quagmire, but this new opportunity to exercise her power, almost
moribund since her party was no longer in Opposition, was a stronger
motive still.

When Anne was alone in her room she sat down and stared through the
half-closed jalousies until the luncheon bell rang at two o'clock,
forgetting to change her frock. But she could make little of the
ferment in her mind, except that her mental companion, that arbitrary
creation she had called Byam Warner, was gone forever. Even did she
return to her northern home and dwell alone, his image would never
return. She could not even now recall the lineaments of that immortal
lover. The life of the imagination was past. Realities multiplied; no
doubt she was converging swiftly upon one so hideous as to make her
wish she had never been born. Any day she might be formally introduced
over a dish of tea to a degraded, broken creature whom all the world
despised as a man, and who she would be forced to remind herself was
the author of the poems of Byam Warner. Byron, at least, had never
been a common drunkard. Picturesque in even his dissipations, he had
been a superb romantic figure to the last. But this man! She could
hear the struggle and rattle of romance as it died within her. Oh,
that she had never seen Nevis, that her father had lived, that she
could have gone on----! Then a peremptory thought asserted itself. The
time was come for her to live. To dream for twenty-two years was
enough. She must take up her part in life, grasp its realities, help
others if she could. She could not love this poor outcast, but were
she offered a share in his redemption she should embrace the
circumstance as a sacred duty.

In time, perhaps, she might even marry. That dreadful old woman was
right, no doubt, it was her manifest destiny. Certainly she should
like to have children and a fine establishment of her own. Lord
Hunsdon was unacceptable, but doubtless a prepossessing suitor would
arrive before long, and when he did she would marry him gladly and
live rationally and dream no more. And when she reached this decision
she wept, and could not go down to luncheon; but she did not retire
from the mental step she had taken.




CHAPTER VI


Her mind had time to recover its balance.

It was a fortnight and more before she met Byam Warner. Lady Hunsdon,
to her secret wrath and amazement, met defeat with the poet himself.
He replied politely to her ladyship's flattering notes, but only to
remind her that he was very busy, that he had been a recluse for some
years, that he was too much out of health to be fit for the society
of ladies. The estimable Hunsdon, after one fruitless interview,
invariably found the poet from home when he called. "The massa" was
up in the hills. He was on St. Kitts. He was visiting relatives on
Antigua. Had he been in London he could not more successfully have
protected himself. Lord Hunsdon was a man of stubborn purpose, but he
could not search the closed rooms along the gallery.

But the poet's indifference to social patronage at least accomplished
one of the objects upon which Lady Hunsdon had set her heart. The
guests of Bath House, vaguely curious, or properly scandalised, at the
first, soon became quite feverish to meet the distinguished friend of
Lord Hunsdon. So rapidly does a fashion, a fad, leap from bulb to
blossom in idle minds, that before a fortnight was out even the young
men were anxious to extend the hand of good fellowship, while as for
the young ladies, they dreamed of placing his reformation to their own
private account, learned his less subtle poems by heart, and began to
write him anonymous notes.

Meanwhile, Anne, hoping that his purpose would prove of a consistency
with his habits, and determined to dismiss him from her thoughts,
found sufficient pleasure and distraction in her daily life. She made
her short skirts--several hemmed strips gathered into a belt!--and
walked about the island in the early morning. The negroes singing in
the golden cane fields, the women walking along the white road with
their swinging hips, immense baskets poised on their heads, pic'nees
trotting behind, or clinging to their flanks, the lonely odorous,
silent jungles in the high recesses, the cold fringe of forest close
to the lost crater, the house in which Nelson courted and married his
bride and the church in which the marriage certificate is still kept;
she visited them all and alone. In the afternoon she drove with her
aunt, their phaeton one of a gay procession, stopping sometimes at one
of the Great Houses, where she was taken by the young people out to
the mill to see the grinding and partake of "sling;" home in the cool
of the evening to dress for the long dinner and brilliant evening. She
would not dance, but she made several friends among the young men,
notably that accomplished lady-killer and arbiter elegantiarum, Mr.
Abergenny, so prosilient in the London of his day; and found herself
in a fair way to be disliked thoroughly by all the other young women
save Lady Mary Denbigh; who, somewhat to her embarrassment, showed a
distinct preference for her society, particularly when Lord Hunsdon
was in attendance. The men she liked better than she had believed
possible, estimating them by their suspiciously small waists, their
pinched feet, and hair so carefully curled and puffed out at the side;
but although Lord Hunsdon's attentions were now unmistakable, she
liked him none the better that she esteemed him the more, and was
glad of the refuge the admiration of the other men afforded her.

And then, without any preliminary sign of capitulation, Byam Warner
wrote to Lady Hunsdon announcing that he now felt sufficiently
recovered to pay his devoirs to one who had been so kind, apologised
for any apparent discourtesy, and asked permission to drink a dish of
tea with her on the following evening.

Lady Hunsdon was quite carried out of herself by this victory, for
there was a Lady Toppington at Bath House, whose husband was in the
present cabinet and a close friend of Peel. She had given the finest
ball of the season to signalise the return of the Tories to power, and
would have taken quick possession of the social reins had Lady Hunsdon
laid them down for a moment. Politics enjoyed a rest on Nevis, but
other interests loomed large in proportion, and the apparent defeat of
the hitherto invulnerable leader of ton excited both joy and hope in
the breast of Lady Toppington and her little court. Now did Lady
Hunsdon sweep rivals aside with her flexible eyebrows, and on the
evening when she was able to announce her triumph, she was besieged
in her stately chair, not unlike a throne.

But she was deaf to hints and bolder hopes. She would not thrust a shy
young man, long a hermit, into a miscellaneous company when he had
come merely to drink tea with herself and son and a few intimate
friends. Later, of course, they should all meet him, but they must
possess their souls in patience. To this dictum they submitted as
gracefully as possible, but they were not so much in awe of Lady
Hunsdon as to forbear to peep from windows and sequestered nooks on
the following evening at nine o'clock, when Byam Warner emerged from
the palm avenue, ran hurriedly up the long flights of steps between
the terraces, and, escorted by Lord Hunsdon, who met him at the door,
up to the suite of his hostess.

Anne was standing in the deep embrasure of the window when he entered
the sitting-room, where she, in common with Lady Constance Mortlake,
Lady Mary Denbigh, Mrs. Nunn, and Miss Bargarny, who was a favourite
of Lady Hunsdon and would take no denial, had been bidden to do honour
to the poet. She heard Lady Hunsdon's dulcet icy tones greet him
and present him to her guests, the ceremonious responses of the
ladies--but not a syllable from Warner--before she steeled herself to
turn and walk forward. But the ordeal she had anticipated was still to
face. Warner did not raise his eyes as her name was pronounced. He
merely bowed mechanically and had the appearance of not having removed
his gaze from the floor since he entered the room. He was deathly
pale, and his lips were closely pressed as if to preserve their
firmness. Anne, emboldened by a shyness greater than her own, and
relieved of the immediate prospect of meeting his eyes, examined him
curiously after he had taken a chair and the others were amiably
covering his silence with their chatter. He had dressed himself in an
old but immaculate white linen suit with a high collar and small
necktie. It was evident that he had always been very thin, for his
clothes, unassisted by stays, fitted without a wrinkle, although his
shoulders were perhaps more bowed than when his tailor had measured
him. His hair was properly cut and parted, but although he was still
young, its black was bright with silver. His head and brow were nobly
formed, his set features fine and sensitive, but his thin face was
lined and gray. It was unmistakably the face of a dissipated man, but
oddly enough the chin was not noticeably weak, and the ideality of the
brow, and the delicacy of the nostril and upper lip were unaltered.
Nevertheless, and in spite of the suggestion of ease which still
lingered about his tall figure, there was something so abject about
his whole appearance, his painful self-consciousness at finding
himself once more among people that had justly cast him out was so
apparent, that Anne longed for an excuse to bid him go forth and hide
himself once more. But to dismiss him was the part of Lady Hunsdon,
who had no intention of doing anything of the sort. It is doubtful if
either she or any of the others saw aught in his bearing but the
natural embarrassment of a shy man at finding himself once more within
the enchanted circle. Lady Hunsdon expatiated upon the beauty of
Nevis, long familiar to her through his works, vowed that she had come
to the island only to see for herself how much he had exaggerated, but
