" No, no ! Not on any account ! I'd rather think it 
out for myself. You couldn't help me. After all, it 
hasn't done me any harm — " 

" And you've had a great escape ! And I won't say a 
word more now, but I'll be back soon, and then we — 
Oh, I'm so sorry I'm going." 

Verrian gave a laugh. " You couldn't do anything 
if you stayed, mother. Do go!" 

" Well — " She looked at him, smoothing her muff 
with her hand a moment, and then she dropped a fond 
kiss on his cheek and obeyed him. 



IV 

Veekian still sat at ,his desk, thinking, with his burn- 
ing face in his hands. It was covered with shame for 
what had happened to him, but his humiliation had no 
quality of pity in it. He must write to that girl, and 
write at once, and his sole hesitation was as to the form 
he should give his reply. He could not address her as 
Dear Miss Brown or as Dear Madam. Even Madam 
was not sharp and forbidding enough ; besides, Madam, 
alone or with the senseless prefix, was archaic, and 
Verrian wished to be very modern with this most of- 
fensive instance of the latest girl. He decided upon 
dealing with her in the third person, and trusting to his 
literary skill to keep the form from clumsiness. 

He tried it in that form, and it was simply disgusting, 
the attitude stiff and swelling, and the diction affected 
and unnatural. With a quick reversion to the impos- 
sible first type, he recast his letter in what was now 
the only possible shape. 

" My deab Miss Brown, — The editor of the Ameri- 
can Miscellany has sent me a copy of his recent letter 
to you and your own reply, and has remanded to me 
an affair which resulted from my going to him with 
your request to see the close of my story now publish- 
ing in his magazine. 

"After giving the matter my best thought, I have 
concluded that it will be well to enclose all the exhibits 
to you, and I now do this in the hope that a serious 

 

study of them will enable you to share my surprise at 
the moral and social conditions in which the business 
could originate. I willingly leave with you the ques- 
tion which is the more trustworthy, your letter to me 
or your letter to him, or which the more truly repre- 
sents the interesting diversity of your nature. I con- 
fess that the first moved me more than the second, and 
I do not see why I should not tell you that as soon as 
I had your request I went with it to Mr. Armiger and 
did what I could to prompt his compliance with it. In 
putting these papers out of my hands, I ought to ac- 
knowledge that they have formed a temptation to make 
literary use of the affair which I shall now be the bet- 
ter fitted to resist. You will, of course, be amused by 
the ease with which you could abuse my reliance on 
your good faith, and I am sure you will not allow any 
shame for your trick to qualify your pleasure in its 
success. 

" It will not be necessary for you to acknowledge this 
letter and its enclosures. I will register the package, 
so that it will not fail to reach you, and I will return 
any answer of yours unopened, or, if not recognizably 
addressed, then unread. 

" Yours sincerely, 

" P. S. Vebeian." 

He read and read again these lines, with only the 
sense of their insufficiency in doing the effect of the 
bitterness in his heart. If the letter was insulting, 
it was by no means as insulting as he would have 
liked to make it. Whether it would be wounding enough 
was something that depended upon the person whom he 
wished to wound. All that was proud and vain and 
cruel in him surged up at the thought of the trick that 
had been played upon him, and all that was sweet and 


kind and gentle in him, when he believed the trick was 
a genuine appeal, turned to their counter qualities. 
Yet, feeble and inadequate as his letter was, he knew 
that he could not do more or worse by trying, and he 
so much feared that by waiting he might do less and 
better that he hurried it into the post at once. If his 
mother had been at hand he would have shown it her, 
though he might not have been ruled by her judgment 
of it. He was glad that she was not with him, for either 
she would have had her opinion of what would be more 
telling, or she would have insisted upon his delaying 
any sort of reply, and he could not endure the thought 
of difference or delay. 

He asked himself whether he should let her see the 
rough first draft of his letter or not, and he decided 
that he would not. But when she came into his study 
on her return he showed it her. 

She read it in silence, and then she seemed to tempo- 
rize in asking, " Where are her two letters ?" 

" I've sent them back with the answer." 

His mother let the paper drop from her hands. 
" Philip ! You haven't sent this!" 

" Yes, I have. It wasn't what I wanted to make it, 
but I wished to get the detestable experience out of 
my mind, and it was the best I could do at the moment. 
Don't you like it ?" 

" Oh — " She seemed beginning to say something, 
but without saying anything she took the fallen leaf 
up and read it again. 

" Well !" he demanded, with impatience. 

" Oh, you may have been right. I hope you've not 
been wrong." 

"Mother!" 

" She deserved the severest things you could say ; and 
yet-" 

 

"Well ?" 

" Perhaps she was punished enough already." 

" What do you mean ?" 

" I don't like your being — vindictive." 

" Vindictive ?" 

"Being so terribly just, then." She added, at his 
blank stare, " This is killing, Philip." 

He gave a bitter laugh. " I don't think it will kill 
her. She isn't that kind." 

" She's a girl." his mother said, with a kind of sad 
absence. 

"But not a single-minded girl, you warned me. I 
wish I could have taken your warning. It would have 
saved me from playing the fool before myself and 
giving myself away to Armiger, and letting him give 
himself away. I don't think Miss Brown will suffer 
much before she dies. She will ' get together,' as she 
calls it, with that other girl and have ' a real good time ' 
over it. You know the village type and the village con- 
ditions, where the vulgar ignorance of any larger world 
is so thick you could cut it with a knife. Don't be 
troubled by my vindictiveness or my justice, mother! 
I begin to think I have done justice and not fallen short 
of it, as I was afraid." 

Mrs. Verrian sighed, and again she gave his letter 
back to her son. " Perhaps you are right, Philip. She 
is probably so tough as not to feel it very painfully." 

" She's not so tough but she'll be very glad to get 
out of it so lightly. She has had a useful scare, and 
I've done her a favor in making the scare a sharp one. 
I suppose," Verrian mused, " that she thinks I've kept 
copies of her letters." 

" Yes. Why didn't you ?" his mother asked. 

Verrian laughed, only a little less bitterly than before. " I shall begin to believe you're all alike, mother. 

 

I didn't keep copies of her letters because I wanted to 
get her and her letters out of my mind, finally and 
forever. Besides, I didn't choose to emulate her du- 
plicity by any sort of dissimulation. 

" I see what you mean," his mother said. " And, of 
course, you have taken the only honorable way." 

Then they were both silent for a time, thinking their 
several thoughts. 

Verrian broke the silence to say, " I wish I knew 
what sort of ' other girl ' it was that she ' got together 
with.' " 

"Why?" 

" Because she wrote a more cultivated letter than this 
magnanimous creature who takes all the blame to herself." 

" Then you don't believe they're both the same !" 

" They are both the same in stationery and chirog- 
raphy, but not in literature." 

" I hope you won't get to thinking about her, then," 
his mother entreated, intelligibly but not definitely. 

" Not seriously," Verrian reassured her. " I've had 
my medicine." 



Continuity is so much the lesson of experience that 
in the course of a life by no means long it becomes the 
instinctive expectation. The event that has happened 
will happen again ; it will prolong itself in a series of 
recurrences by which each one's episode shares in the 
unending history of all. The sense of this is so per- 
vasive that humanity refuses to accept death itself as 
final. In the agonized affections, the shattered hopes, 
of those who remain, the severed life keeps on un- 
brokenly, and when time and reason prevail, at least as 
to the life here, the defeated faith appeals for fulfil- 
ment to another world, and the belief of immortality 
holds against the myriad years in which none of the 
numberless dead have made an indisputable sign in wit- 
ness of it. The lost limb still reports its sensations to 
the brain; the fixed habit mechanically attempts its 
repetition when the conditions render it impossible. 

Verrian was aware how deeply and absorbingly he 
had brooded upon the incident wbich he had done his 
utmost to close, when he found himself expecting an 
answer of some sort from his unknown correspondent. 
He perceived, then, without owning the fact, that he 
had really hoped for some protest, some excuse, some 
extenuation, which in the end would suffer him to be 
more merciful. Though he had wished to crush her 
into silence, and to forbid her all hope of his forgive- 
ness, he had, in a manner, not meant to do it. He had 
kept a secret place in his soul where the sinner against 

 

him could find refuge from his justice, and when this 
sanctuary remained unattempted he found himself with 
a regret that he had barred the way to it so effectually. 
The regret was so vague, so formless, however, that he 
could tacitly deny it to himself at all times, and ex- 
plicitly deny it to his mother at such times as her touch 
taught him that it was tangible. 

One day, after ten or twelve days had gone by, she 
asked him, " You haven't heard anything more from 
that girl ?" 

" What girl ?" he returned, as if he did not know ; 
and he frowned. " You mean the girl that wrote me 
about my story?" 

" Yes." 

He continued to frown rather more darkly. " I 
don't see how you could expect me to hear from her, 
after what I wrote. But, to be categorical, I haven't, 
mother." 

" Oh, of course not. Did you think she would be so 
easily silenced ?" 

" I did what I could to crush her into silence." 

" Yes, and you did quite right ; I am more and more 
convinced of that. But such a very tough young per- 
son might have refused to stay crushed. She might 
very naturally have got herself into shape again and 
smoothed out the creases, at least so far to try some 
further defence." 

" It seems that she hasn't," Verrian said, still darkly, 
but not so frowningly. 

" I should have fancied," his mother suggested, " that 
if she had wanted to open a correspondence with you — 
if that was her original object — she would not have let 
it drop so easily." 

" Has she let it drop easily ? I thought I had left 
her no possible chance of resuming it." 



"That is true," his mother said, and for the time 
she said no more about the matter. 

Not long after this he came home from the magazine 
office and reported to her from Armiger that the story- 
was catching on more and more with the best class of 
readers. The editor had shown Verrian some references 
to it in newspapers of good standing and several let- 
ters about it. 

"I thought you might like to look at the let- 
ters," Verrian said, and he took some letters from 
his pocket and handed them to her across the lunch- 
table. She did not immediately look at them, because 
he went on to add something that they both felt to be 
more important. " Armiger says there has been some 
increase of the sales, which I can attribute to my story 
if I have the cheek." 

" That is good." 

"And the house wants to publish the book. They 
think, down there, that it will have a very pretty suc- 
cess — not be a big seller, of course, but something com- 
fortable." 

Mrs. Verrian's eyes were suffused with pride and 
fondness. " And you can always think, Philip, that 
this has come to you without the least lowering of 
your standard, without forsaking your ideal for a mo- 
ment." 

" That is certainly a satisfaction." 

She kept her proud and tender gaze upon him. " No 
one will ever know as I do how faithful you have been 
to your art. Did any of the newspapers recognize that 
—or surmise it, or suspect it ?" 

" No, that isn't the turn they take. They speak of 
the strong love interest involved in the problem. And 
the abundance of incident. I looked out to keep some- 
thing happening, you know. I'm sorry I didn't ask 

 

Armiger to let me bring the notices home to you. I'm 
not sure that I did wisely not to subscribe to that press- 
clippings bureau." 

His mother smiled. " You mustn't let prosperity cor- 
rupt you, Philip. Wouldn't seeing what the press is 
saying of it distract you from the real aim you had in 
your story ?" 

" We're all weak, of course. It might, if the story 
were not finished ; but as it is, I think I could be proof 
against the stupidest praise." 

" Well, for my part, I'm glad you didn't subscribe 
to the clippings bureau. It would have been a disturb- 
ing element." She now looked down at the letters as 
if she were going to take them up, and he followed the 
direction of her eyes. As if reminded of the fact by 
this, he said : 

" Armiger asked me if I had ever heard anything 
more from that girl." 

" Has he ?" his mother eagerly asked, transferring 
her glance from the letters to her son's face. 

" Not a word. I think I silenced her thoroughly." 

" Yes," his mother said. " There could have been 
no good object in prolonging the affair and letting her 
confirm herself in the notion that she was of sufficient 
importance either to you or to him for you to continue 
the correspondence with her. She couldn't learn too 
distinctly that she had done a very wrong thing in try- 
ing to play such a trick on you." 

" That was the way I looked at it," Verrian said, 
but he drew a light sigh, rather wearily. 

" I hope," his mother said, with a recurrent glance 
at the letters, " that there is nothing of that silly kind 
among these." 

" No, these are blameless enough, unless they are 
to be blamed for being too flattering. That girl seems 

 

to be sole of her kind, unless the girl that she ' got to- 
gether with ' was really like her." 

" I don't believe there was any other girl. I never 
thought there was more than one." 

" There seemed to be two styles and two grades of 
culture, such as they were." 

" Oh, she could easily imitate two manners. She 
must have been a clever girl," Mrs. Verrian said, with 
that admiration for any sort of cleverness in her sex 
which even very good women cannot help feeling. 

" Well, perhaps she was punished enough for both 
the characters she assumed," Verrian said, with a smile 
that was not gay. 

" Don't think about her!" his mother returned, with 
a perception of his mood. " I'm only thankful that 
she's out of our lives in every sort of way." 



VI 



Veebian said nothing, but he reflected with a sort of 
gloomy amusement how impossible it was for any wom- 
an, even a woman so wide-minded and high-principled 
as his mother, to escape the personal view of all things 
and all persons which women take. He tacitly noted the 
fact, as the novelist notes whatever happens or appears 
to him, but he let the occasion drop out of his mind as 
soon as he could after it had dropped out of his talk. 

The night when the last number of his story came 
to them in the magazine, and was already announced 
as a book, he sat up with his mother celebrating, as 
he said, and exulting in the future as well as the past. 
They had a little supper, which she cooked for him in 
a chafing-dish, in the dining-room of the tiny apart- 
ment where they lived together, and she made some 
coffee afterwards, to carry off the effect of the Newburg 
lobster. Perhaps because there was nothing to carry 
off the effect of the coffee, he heard her, through the 
partition of their rooms, stirring restlessly after he had 
gone to bed, and a little later she came to his door, which 
she set ajar, to ask, " Are you awake, Philip ?" 

" You seem to be, mother," he answered, with an 
amusement at her question which seemed not to have 
imparted itself to her when she came in and stood 
beside his bed in her dressing-gown. 

" You don't think we have judged her too harshlv, 
-Philip?" 

"Do you, mother?" 

 

" No, I think we couldn't be too severe in a thing 
like that. She probably thought you were like some 
of the other story-writers ; she couldn't feel difference 
shades. She pretended to be taken with the circum- 
stances of your work, but she had to do that if she 
wanted to fool you. Well, she has got her come-uppings, 
as she would probably say." 

Verrian replied, thoughtfully, " She didn't strike me 
as a country person — at least, in her first letter." 

" Then you still think she didn't write both ?" 

" If she did, she was trying her hand in a personality 
she had invented." 

" Girls are very strange," his mother sighed. " They 
like excitement, adventure. It's very dull in those lit- 
tle places. I shouldn't wish you to think any harm 
of the poor thing." 

" Poor thing ? Why this magnanimous compassion, 
mother ?" 

" Oh, nothing. But I know how I was myself when 
I was a girl. I used almost to die of hunger for some- 
thing to happen. Can you remember just what you said 
in your letter ?" 

Verrian laughed. " No, I can't. But I don't believe 
I said half enough. You're nervous, mother." 

" Yes, I am. But don't you get to worrying. I mere- 
ly got to thinking how I should hate to have anybody's 
unhappiness mixed up with this happiness of ours. I 
do so want your pleastire in your success to be pure, 
not tainted with the pain of any human creature." 

Verrian answered with light cynicism : " It will be 
tainted with the pain of the fellows who don't like me, 
or who haven't succeeded, and they'll take care to let 
me share their pain if ever they can. But if you mean 
that merry maiden up country, she's probably thinking, 
if she thinks about it at all, that she's the luckiest 



girl in the United States to have got out of an awful 
scrape so easily. At the worst, I only had fun with her 
in my letter. Prohahly she sees that she has nothing 
to grieve for but her own break." 

" No, and you did just as you should have done ; and 
I am glad you don't feel bitterly about it. You don't, 
do you?" 

" Not the least." 

His mother stooped over and kissed him where he lay 
smiling. " Well, that's good. After all, it's you I cared 
for. Now I can say good-night." But she lingered to 
tuck him in a little, from the persistence of the mother 
habit. " I wish you may never do anything that you 
will be sorry for." 

" Well, I won't — if it's a good action." 

They laughed together, and she left the room, still 
looking back to see if there was anything more she 
could do for him, while he lay smiling, intelligently 
for what she was thinking, and patiently for what she 
was doing. 



VII 

Even in the time which was then coming and which 
now is, when successful authors are almost as many as 
millionaires, Verrian's book brought him a pretty celeb- 
rity ; and this celebrity was in a way specific. It related 
to the quality of his work, which was quietly artistic 
and psychological, whatever liveliness of incident it ut- 
tered on the surface. He belonged to the good school 
which is of no fashion and of every time, far both from 
actuality and unreality ; and his recognition came from 
people whose recognition was worth having. With this 
came the wider notice which was not worth having, 
like the notice of Mrs. Westangle, since so well known 
to society reporters as a society woman, which could not 
be called recognition of him, because it did not involve 
any knowledge of his book, not even its title. She did 
not read any sort of books, and she assimilated him by 
a sort of atmospheric sense. She was sure of nothing 
but the attention paid him in a certain very goodish 
house, by people whom she heard talking in unintel- 
ligible but unmistakable praise, when she said, casually, 
with a liquid glitter of her sweet, small eyes, " I wish 
you would come down to my place, Mr. Verrian. I'm 
asking a few young people for Christmas week. Will 
you?" 

" Why, thank you — thank you very much," Verrian 
said, waiting to hear more in explanation of the hos- 
pitality launched at him. He had never seen Mrs. 
Westangle till then, or heard of her, and he had not the 

 

least notion where she lived. But she seemed to have 
social authority, though Verrian, in looking round at his 
hostess and her daughter, who stood near, letting peo- 
ple take leave, learned nothing from their common 
smile. Mrs. Westangle had glided close to him, in the 
way she had of getting very near without apparently 
having advanced hy steps, and she stood gleaming and 
twittering up at him. 

" I shall send you a little note ; I won't let you for- 
get," she said. Then she suddenly shook hands with the 
ladies of the house and was flashingly gone. 

Verrian thought he might ask the daughter of the 
house, " And if I don't forget, am I engaged to spend 
Christmas week with her ?" 

The girl laughed. " If she doesn't forget, you are. 
But you'll have a good time. She'll know how to 
manage that." Other guests kept coming up to take 
leave, and Verrian, who did not want to go just yet, 
was retired to the background, where the girl's voice, 
thrown over her shoulder at him, reached him in the 
words, as gay as if they were the best of the joke, " It's 
on the Sound." 

The inference was that Mrs. Westangle's place was 
on the Sound ; and that was all Verrian knew about it 
till he got her little note. Mrs. Westangle knew how 
to write in a formless hand, but she did not know how 
to spell, and she had thought it best to have a secretary 
who could write well and spell correctly. Though, as 
far as literacy was concerned, she was such an almost 
incomparably ignorant woman, she had all the knowl- 
edge the best society wants, or, if she found herself out 
of any, she went and bought some ; she was able to buy 
almost anything. 

Verrian thanked the secretary for remembering him, 
in the belief that he was directly thanking Mrs. West- 

 

angle, whose widespread consciousness his happiness in 
accepting did not immediately reach ; and in the very 
large house party, which he duly joined under her roof, 
he was aware of losing distinctiveness almost to the 
point of losing identity. This did not quite happen 
on the way to Belford, for, when he went to take his 
seat in the drawing-room car, a girl in the chair front- 
ing him put out her hand with the laugh of Miss 
Macroyd. 

" She did remember you !" she cried out. " How 
delightful ! I don't see how she ever got onto you " 
— she made the slang her own — " in the first place, and 
she must have worked hard to be sure of you since." 

Verrian hung up his coat and put his suit-case be- 
hind his chair, the porter having put it where he could 
not wheel himself vis-a-vis with the girl. " She took 
all the time there was," he answered. " I got my in- 
vitation only the day before yesterday, and if I had 
been in more demand, or had a worse conscience — " 

" Oh, do say worse conscience ! It's so much more 
interesting," the girl broke in. 

" — I shouldn't have the pleasure of going to Seasands 
with you now," he concluded, and she gave her laugh. 
" Do I understand that simply my growing fame 
wouldn't have prevailed with her ?" 

Anything seemed to make Miss Macroyd laugh. 
" She couldn't have cared about that, and she wouldn't 
have known. You may be sure that it was a social 
question with her after the personal question was set- 
tled. She must have liked your looks!" Again Miss 
Macroyd laughed. 

" On that side I'm invulnerable. It's only a literary 
vanity to be soothed or to be wounded that I have," 
Verrian said. 

" Oh, there wouldn't be anything personal in her 

 

liking your looks. It would be merely deciding that 
personally you would do," Miss Macroyd laughed, as 
always, and Verrian put on a mock seriousness in ask- 
ing: 

" Then I needn't be serious if there should happen to 
be anything so Westangular as a Mr. Westangle ?" 

" Not the least in the world." 

" But there is something ?" 

" Oh, I believe so. But not probably at Seasands." 

" Is that her house ?" 

" Yes. Every other name had been used, and she 
couldn't say Soundsands." 

" Then where would the Mr. Westangular part more 
probably be found?" 

" Oh, in Montana or Mesopotamia, or any of those 
places. Don't you know about him? How ignorant 
literary people can be ! Why, he was the Amalgamated 
Clothespin. You haven't heard of that ?" 

She went on to tell him, with gay digressions, about 
the invention which enabled Westangle to buy up the 
other clothespins and merge them in his own — to become 
a commercial octopus, clutching the throats of other 
clothespin inventors in the tentacles of the Westangle 
pin. " But he isn't in clothespins now. He's in mines, 
and banks, and steamboats, and railroads, and I don't 
know what all ; and Mrs. Westangle, the second of her 
name, never was in clothespins." 

Miss Macroyd laughed all through her talk, and she 
was in a final burst of laughing when the train slowed 
into Stamford. There a girl came into the car trailing 
her skirts with a sort of vivid debility and overturn- 
ing some minor pieces of hand -baggage which her 
draperies swept out of their shelter beside the chairs. 
She had to take one of the seats which back against the 
wall of the state-room, where she must face the whole 

 

length of the car. She sat weakly fallen back in the 
chair and motionless, as if almost unconscious; but 
after the train had begun to stir she started up, and with 
a quick flinging of her veil aside turned to look out of 
the Avindow. In the flying instant Verrian saw a color- 
less face with pinched and sunken eyes under a worn- 
looking forehead, and a withered mouth whose lips 
parted feebly. 

On her part, Miss Macroyd had doubtless already 
noted that the girl was, with no show of expensiveness, 
authoritatively well gowned and personally hatted. She 
stared at her, and said, " What a very hunted and es- 
caping effect." 

" She does look rather — fugitive," Verrian agreed, 
staring too. 

" One might almost fancy — an asylum." 

" Yes, or a hospital." 

They continued both to stare at her, helpless for what- 
ever different reasons to take their eyes away, and they 
were still interested in her when they heard her asking 
the conductor, " Must I change and take another train 
before we get to Belf ord ? My friends thought — " 

" No, this train stops at Southfield," the conductor 
answered, absently biting several holes into her draw- 
ing-room ticket. 

" Can she be one of us ?" Miss Macroyd demanded, in 
a dramatic whisper. 

" She might be anything," Verrian returned, try- 
ing instantly, with a whir of his inventive machinery, to 
phrase her. He made a sort of luxurious failure of it, 
and rested content with her face, which showed itself 
now in profile and now fronted him in full, and now 
was restless and now subsided in a look of delicate 
exhaustion. He would have said, if he would have said 
anything absolute, that she was a person who had some- 

 

thing on her mind; at instants she had that hunted 
air, passing at other instants into that air of escape. 
He discussed these appearances with Miss Macroyd, but 
found her too frankly disputatious; and she laughed 
too much and too loud. 



VIII 

At Southfield, where they all descended, Miss Mac- 
royd promptly possessed herself of a groom, who came 
forward tentatively, touching his hat. " Miss Mac- 
royd ?" she suggested. 

" Yes, miss," the man said, and led the way round 
the station to the victoria which, when Miss Macroyd's 
maid had mounted to the place beside her, had no room' 
for any one else. 

Verrian accounted for her activity upon the theory 
of her quite justifiable wish not to arrive at Seasands 
with a young man whom she might then have the effect 
of having voluntarily come all the way with ; and after 
one or two circuits of the station it was apparent to him 
that he was not to have been sent for from Mrs. West- 
angle's, but to have been left to the chances of the 
local drivers and their vehicles. These were reduced 
to a single carryall and a frowsy horse whose rough 
winter coat recalled the aspect of his species in the 
period following the glacial epoch. The mud, as of a 
world-thaw, encrusted the wheels and curtains of the 
carryall. 

Verrian seized upon it and then went into the wait- 
ing-room, where he had left his suit-case. He found 
the stranger there in parley with the young woman in 
the ticket-office about a conveyance to Mrs. Westangle's. 
It proved that he had secured not only the only thing 
of the sort, but the only present hope of any other, and 
in the hard case he could not hesitate with distress so 

 

interesting. It would have been brutal to drive off and 
leave that girl there, and it would have been a vulgar 
flourish to put the entire vehicle at her service. Be- 
sides, and perhaps above all, Verrian had no idea of 
depriving himself of such a chance as heaven seemed to 
offer him. 
