choice Boston property for her. She's pretty and has charming manners
and comes of a good family."
Then Mrs. Stevens asked her to come in to Boston for a few days. She was
going to have a little dancing party.
"My dear, you'll dance yourself to death," said Cousin Eunice.
"Oh, no. It isn't as hard as cleaning house or washing, as some of the
poor women do. And it is tiresome to practise on the spinet, hour after
hour--counting time and all that. If I was a girl of twenty years ago
I'm afraid I should be chasing up and down some old garret, spinning on
the big wheel."
Cousin Eunice laughed, too. Cynthia always made commonplaces seem
amusing, she accented them so with her bright face.
They were very glad to have her in Boston. Chilian took her in on
Saturday and staid with her until Monday morning. On Sunday Anthony
Drayton was invited in to dinner. He had improved very much. The country
air had been effaced. And he was a gentleman by instinct, and acquired
cultivation readily.
"And a fine fellow!" said Cousin Giles, rubbing his hands. "He's decided
to go in for law presently, and it will be a most excellent thing. I
don't know but I'll have to adopt him, as you did Cynthia."
Anthony hovered about the young girl. She had been cultivating her voice
the last year. It was a sweet parlor voice, adapted to the old-time
songs. Mrs. Stevens had a book of them and she sang most cheerfully.
"Oh, I wish you were going to stay over another Sunday," he exclaimed
wistfully. "But I shall come in on Tuesday evening. I don't dance, but
Mrs. Stevens is so kind to me, I've met several of the first men in the
city here."
"Oh, I am glad you are coming."
It was a very sincere joy and she could not keep it out of her face, did
not try to. And it was such a sweet face that she raised to his. He had
a sudden unreasonable wish that he was five years older and settled in
business, but then--she was very young.
Mrs. Stevens said to her on Monday, after she had read a note over and
glanced up at her rather furtively, "There's a friend of yours coming
Tuesday night--a friend from Salem that I hope you will be glad to see."
"From Salem----"
"Mr. Saltonstall. He was in here a fortnight or so ago. His mother and I
used to be great friends. I happened to ask him if he knew the
Leveretts, and he told me about his brother's marriage, that you were
one of the bridesmaids."
"Oh, yes. Laura Manning was one of the older girls at Madam Torrey's.
They had just gone in their new house and the wedding was splendid. And
I liked Mr. Edward Saltonstall so much. He is a most beautiful dancer.
I'm so glad he is coming. You see I don't know many of the new dances,
and I shouldn't so much mind making a break with him."
She looked up in her sweet, brave innocence as she uttered it.
"You are not in love with him, little lady, and he is very much smitten
with you," Mrs. Stevens ruminated. "But you shall have the chance."
"I've always liked Ed," she continued. "He's a nice, frank, honest
fellow, pretty gay at times, but not at all in the dissipated line, just
full of fun and frolic. So I asked him down, and here he says he will
come," waving her note. "I look out for men who dance. I do like to see
young folks have a good time. The older people can play cards."
It seemed rather odd that at eight o'clock not a soul had come. At home
they would be beginning the fun by this time. Then a sudden influx of
girls, some she had met before--two or three young men--and then young
Saltonstall, who had been counting the moments the last half hour.
"I am so glad to see you. It was such a surprise."
He could see it in her face, hear it in her voice. He really was afraid
of saying something foolish--something that would be no harm if they
were alone.
"I've known Mrs. Stevens a long while. And Mr. Giles Leverett. It's
queer--well, not quite that either--that I've known you such a little
while. I always thought of you as a child, though I've seen you drive
your pony carriage."
"Mrs. Stevens is delightful."
Then there was another relay, quite a number of young gentlemen. The
black fiddlers in the hall began to tune up.
There were two very handsome girls and beautifully gowned. All of them
looked pretty in dancing attire. Then a quadrille was called. There were
just eight couples.
Of course, Mr. Saltonstall took her. The rug was up and the floor had
been polished. The dancing was elegant, harmonious.
"The next is the Spanish dance. You will like that. The windings about
are like the song words to the music."
"But--I don't know it;" and she shrank back.
"Oh, you'll get into it. You are the kind that could pick up any step.
You make me think of a swallow as it darts round. If it made a mistake
no one would know it."
"Oh, I'd rather not;" entreatingly.
"Don't spoil the set."
She rose up and let him lead her out. She had a way of yielding so
quickly, when it was right and best, very flattering to a man in love
and easily misread.
If dancing had been art instead of nature, something by rote instead of
a segment of inner harmony, she could not have succeeded so well. He
warded off the few blunders, and at the third change she had another
well-bred partner. But she was glad to get back to him. The joy shone in
her dangerous eyes.
There were some new dances coming in. One of the girls from New York and
her escort waltzed up and down the room in a slow-gliding manner that
was the poetry of motion. She was fascinated, enchanted, and she knew
she could do it herself.
"We'll try it sometime," Saltonstall said.
Mr. Leverett came in, bringing Anthony Drayton with him. He knew he was
late, but he didn't dance, and he had earned five dollars copying that
evening. But he must see Cynthia.
"Oh, I thought you would not come!"
Then she had been giving a thought to him out of her happy time!
"I was detained. Are they all well, or didn't Cousin Chilian come down?"
"Oh, no."
They were being marshalled out to supper.
"You'll have to content yourself with me," said Mrs. Stevens to Anthony,
and he accepted smilingly. But she placed Cynthia next, so he could have
a little talk with her. He was getting on so well, and she was glad for
him.
Some one wanted Miss Tracy to waltz again. Then they had a galop, and
the party broke up. Anthony said good-night, and that he was coming up
on Saturday. Then Saltonstall drew her into a little nook in the hall
that made a connection with another room when it was open. Mrs. Stevens
had smiled over its uses.
"Cynthia, my darling, I must tell you this," and his voice seemed to
throb with emotion. "I want the right to come and visit you as lovers
have, for I love you, love you! I am coming to see Mr. Leverett and ask
his permission. I do nothing but dream of you day and night. You are the
sweetest, dearest----"
"Oh, don't! don't!" She struggled in the clasp. "Oh, I can't--I----" and
he felt her slight body tremble, so he loosed it.
"Forgive me. I wanted you to know so no one can take you from me. I want
to see you often. Oh, love, good-night, good-night!"
He pressed a rapturous kiss upon her hand and was gone. She slipped
through to the dining-room and took a glass of water.
"You look tired to death, little country girl," said Uncle Giles, and he
kissed her on the forehead.
CHAPTER XV
LOVERS AND LOVERS
"Take me home with you, Cousin Chilian," she pleaded, when he came in
the next day.
"But I thought"--he studied her in surprise.
"I want to go home," she interrupted, and her under lip had a quiver in
it that would have disarmed almost any one, persuaded as well.
"Why, yes. Didn't you enjoy the party?" He felt suddenly at loss, he was
not used to translating moods with all his knowledge.
"Oh, it was delightful! And some such pretty girls. There were new
dances. And Mrs. Stevens is charming. Anthony came over a little
while."
In spite of inducements held out, she would go. Cousin Giles was almost
cross about it.
"I'm so glad to get back," she said to Rachel. "One feels so safe here."
"Was there any danger?" laughed the elder.
Cynthia's face was scarlet. It wasn't danger exactly, but she felt
better under Cousin Chilian's wing. And she was her bright gay self all
the evening.
But how to get her story told? For if Mr. Saltonstall came and asked for
her company, as they termed it then, and not being warned, he should
consent----
They sat by the study fire. It had turned out cold and cloudy, with
indications of snow. He had a lamp near him on the small table, and read
and thought, as his glance wandered dreamily over the leaping flashing
blue and yellow flames. If it stormed for one or two days, she could not
have come home.
She rose presently and came and stood by him, laid her hand lightly on
his shoulder. She was a young lady now, and it was hardly proper to draw
her down on his knee.
"Cousin Chilian;" hesitatingly.
"Well, dear?" in an inquiring tone.
"There is something I ought to tell you, and I want to ask you--to--to
do--oh, I hardly know how to say it. Mr. Saltonstall came down; he and
Mrs. Stevens are old friends----"
Ah, he knew now. This young man had dared to invade the virginal
sweetness of her soul, to trouble the quiet stream of girlhood. He was
roused, strangely angry, for all his placid temperament.
"I couldn't help it--just before he went away--and I couldn't have
dreamed of such a thing----"
Then she hid her head down on his shoulder and cried.
"Dear--my dear little girl--oh, yes, it would have to happen sometime.
And--he loves you."
"Oh, that isn't the worst;" illogically, between her sobs. "He is coming
to ask you if he may--and I don't want him to come that way. I just want
it as it was before. Polly Upham can't think or talk of anything but her
intended, and it gets tiresome. He doesn't seem so very wonderful to me.
And wouldn't it weary you to hear me praising some one all the time?"
"I think it would," he answered honestly, yet with some confusion of
mind.
"So I don't want it;" with more courage in her voice. "I want good times
with them all. And I don't see how you can come to love any one all in a
moment."
Was he hearing aright? Didn't she really want the young man for a lover?
He was unreasonably, fatuously glad, and the pulses, that were chilled a
moment ago, seemed to race hot through his body.
"It was not quite marriage?" a little huskily.
"He wanted to ask if he might have the right to come, and he said he
loved me, and, oh, I am afraid----"
She was trembling. He could feel it where she leaned against him. He
took sudden courage.
"And you do not want him to come in that way? It would most likely lead
to an engagement. And then I should have to listen to his praises
continually. Yes, it would be rather hard on me;" and he laughed with a
humorous sound.
It heartened her a good deal. She was smiling now herself, but there
were tears on her cheek.
"And you won't mind telling him; that is not very much, that----"
"I think you are too young to decide such a grave matter, Cynthia," he
began seriously. "And you ought to have a glad, sweet youth. There is no
reason why you should rush into marriage. You have a pleasant home with
those that love you----"
"And I don't want to go away. I feel as if I would like to live here
always. You are so good and indulgent, and Cousin Eunice is so nice, now
that she doesn't seem afraid of any one. Were we all afraid of Cousin
Elizabeth? And we have such nice talks. She tells me about the old times
and what queer thoughts people had, and how hard they were. And about
girls whose lovers went away to sea and never came back, and how they
watched and waited, and sometimes we cry over them. And the house is so
cheerful, and I can have all the flowers I want, and friends coming in,
and, oh, I shall never want to go away, because I shall never love any
one as well as you."
That was very sweet, but it was a girl's innocence, and her face did not
change color in the admission.
"Well, I will explain the matter to Mr. Saltonstall. I am glad you told
me, otherwise I should hardly have known your wishes on the subject. And
now we will go on having good times together, and count out lovers."
"Yes, yes." She gave his hand a squeeze and was her own happy self, not
feeling half as sorry for the man who would come to be denied as he did.
It snowed furiously the next morning, and sullenly the day after. Then
it was cold, and she said half a dozen times a day she was so glad she
came home.
She did not see Mr. Saltonstall when he called, and she really did miss
him at two little companies. Then she wondered if she oughtn't give one,
she had gone to so many.
"Why, yes," Cousin Chilian answered. She might have turned the house
upside down so long as she was going to stay in it.
Then she wondered if she ought to invite him. Mrs. Lynde and she were
very good friends, and she should ask Avis, of course. They spoke--they
were not ill friends.
Chilian considered. "Yes, I think I would," he made answer.
They had a merry time and danced on the beautiful rugs, and had a fine
supper. And Mr. Saltonstall was glad to be friends. She was young and
presently she might think of lovers. He would try and keep his chance
good.
Anthony came now and then and spent a Sunday with them. He loved to
hear Cousin Chilian read Greek verses, but the pretty love odes seemed
to mean Cynthia, and he used to watch her. Then Ben Upham was a visitor
as well, and used to play checkers with her, as that was considered
quite a good exercise for one's brains.
Polly would be married in the spring, Alice Turner in June. The Turners
were always besieging her for a two or three days' visit, and the Turner
young men hovered round her. She never seemed to do anything, she never
demanded attention, but when she glanced up at them, or smiled, they
followed her as the children did the Pied Piper. She might have led them
into dangerous places, but she was very simple of heart. Yet the danger
was alluring to them.
Polly came to her for a good deal of counsel. When there were two
patterns of sleeves, which should she take?
"Why, I'd have the India silk made with this and the English gingham
with that--you see it will iron so much easier. Miss Grayson does up the
puffs on a shirring cord, then you can let them out in the washing."
"That's a fine idea. You do have such splendid ideas, Cynthy."
"They are mostly Rachel Winn's," laughed the young girl.
They had a capable woman in the kitchen now. Cynthia should have been
mastering the high art of housekeeping, people thought, instead of
running about so much and driving round in the pony carriage with Miss
Winn, or a girl companion. Of course, there was plenty of money, but one
never quite knew what would happen.
John Loring was building his house as people who could did in those
days. They would not be able to finish it all inside, and there was a
nook left for an addition when they needed it. Polly was to have some of
grandmother's furniture, and John's mother would provide a little.
Corner cupboards were quite a substitute in those days for china
closets, and window-seats answered for chairs. But there was bedding and
napery, and no one thought of levying on friends. Relatives looked over
their stock and bestowed a few articles. Cynthia thought of the stores
in the old house and wished she might donate them. She did pick out some
laces from her store, and two pretty scarfs, one of which Polly declared
would be just the thing to trim her wedding hat, which was of fine
Leghorn. So she would only have to buy the feather.
They haunted the stores and occasionally picked up a real bargain. Even
at that period shoppers did not throw their money broadcast.
"Cynthia Leverett is the sweetest girl I know," Polly said daily, and
Bentley was of the same opinion.
They were to stand at the wedding.
"And I want you to wear that beautiful frock that you had when Laura
Manning was married. I shall only have two bridesmaids, you and Betty,
but I want you to look your sweetest."
And surely she did. They had a very nice wedding party and the next day
Polly went to her own house and had various small tea-drinkings, and she
arranged them for Saturday so Bentley could come up. They were
wonderfully good friends, but Cynthia felt as if she had outgrown him.
In her estimation he was just a big friendly boy that one could talk to
familiarly. Anthony was more backward in the laughter and small-talk.
Then there was the college degree. There was no such great fuss made
over commencement then, no grand regattas, no inter-collegiate
athletics, for it was a rather serious thing to begin a young man's life
and look forward to marriage.
He went straight to Mr. Chilian. It was the proper thing to be fortified
with the elders' consent. Of course, he would not marry in some time
yet, but if he could be her "company" and speak presently--they had been
such friends.
Chilian studied the honest young fellow, whose face was in a glow of
hope. So young to dream of love and plan for the future!
"You are both too young;" and his voice had a bit of sharpness in it.
"Cynthia is not thinking of such things."
"But one can think of them. They begin somehow and go into your very
life. I believe I've loved her a long while."
"I think neither of you really know what love is. No, I cannot consent
to it. I want her to go on having a good free time without any anxiety.
I have some right to her, being her guardian."
"But--I will wait--I didn't mean to ask her immediately."
"We are going on a journey presently. I cannot have her disturbed with
this. No, your attention must be devoted to business for the next two
years."
He drew a long breath. "But you don't mean I must break
off--everything?" and there was an unsteadiness in his voice.
"Oh, no. Not if you can keep to the old friendliness."
Then Chilian Leverett dropped into his easy-chair and thought. The child
had grown very dear to him, she was a gift from her father. A
tumultuous, uncomprehended pain wrenched his very soul. To live without
her--to miss her everywhere! To have lonely days, longer lonely evenings
when the dreariness of winter set in. And yet she had a right to the
sweet, rich draught of love. But she did not need it amid all the
pleasures of youth. Let her have two or three years, even if it was
blissful thoughtlessness. But he must put her on her guard. A young
fellow soon changed his mind. The old couplet sang itself in his brain:
          "If she be not fair for me,
           What care I how fair she be?"
Did he get over his early love and forget? We all say, "But ours was
different."
How to find the right moment? Ben did not come over. She was very busy
with this friend and that, youth finds so many interests. But one
evening, when they were sitting on the porch in the moonlight, the young
fellow walked slowly along, glanced at them, halted.
She flew down to the gate.
"Oh, Ben, what has happened?" she cried, the most bewitching anxiety in
her face. "Why, you have not been in--for weeks."
"Not quite two weeks." Had it seemed so long to her? To him it had been
months.
"Oh, come in. Cousin Chilian will be glad to see you."
The radiant cordiality in her face unnerved him.
"And you?" Yes, he must know.
"Do you have to ask that question?"
The sweet, dangerous eyes said too much, but the smile was that of
amusement.
So they walked up the path together. Mr. Leverett greeted him in a
friendly manner.
"I thought I ought to come in and say good-bye. I'm going off on some
business for father, and may not be back for several weeks."
"That sounds as if you needed an apology for coming at all," she
commented with half-resentful gayety.
He flushed and made no immediate reply.
"And we are going to take a journey as well. Up somewhere in Maine. Mr.
Giles Leverett insists we shall, for our health, but I think it is our
delightful company. He has to go to look after a large estate where some
people think of founding a town. Isn't it funny?" and she gave her
bewitching laugh that was like the notes of silver bells, soft, yet
clear. "They must go off and build up new places. And some people are
going West, as if there wasn't room here. Have you noticed that we are
overcrowded?"
"Well, sometimes along the docks it looks that way."
"I like a good many people. Often Merrits' is crowded, and it's funny to
catch bits of sentences. And at Plummer's as well. Did you ever read
right across the paper, one line in each column, and notice the odd and
twisted-up sense it made? That's about the way it sounds."
How bright and charming she was! Ben could not keep his eyes from her
radiant face. Was she really a coquette, Chilian wondered. Yet she was
so simple with it all, so seemingly careless of the effect. That was the
danger of it.
He lingered like one entranced. Poor young lad! Chilian began to feel
sorry for him.
She walked down to the gate with him, and hoped they would have a nice
time when autumn came, if he meant to stay in Salem.
A young man not in love would have called her a bright, merry, chatty
girl. He went away with the consciousness that she liked him very much.
Chilian asked her if she did.
She glanced up wonderingly.
"Why--he is nice, and being Polly's brother makes it--well, more
familiar. Then we can talk about Anthony. I believe he didn't like him
much at first, but he does now."
Oh, how could he put her on her guard! She was not dreaming of love.
Saltonstall's fancy had died out--no doubt this would, too. Lad's love.
Was it worth ruffling up the sunny artlessness? But he would watch the
young men closer now that he knew the danger line.
He said simply to himself that he could not give her up to any one else
so soon. There would be a long life of joy and satisfaction to her, and
he knew she would not grudge him these few years. Then, too, he was
quite certain she had not even had an imaginary fancy for these two
men--Ben was nothing but a boy.
Anthony Drayton was to join them. Miss Winn was to be Cynthia's
companion. Mrs. Stevens had refused to trust her precious self to any
wilds, and bear and wolf hunts, though Mr. Giles declared they were not
going to take guns along. He was not an enthusiastic hunter. As for
Chilian, such sport did not attract him.
The journey was partly by stage, partly on horseback, and one or two
days they left the ladies at the tavern where they stopped. Cynthia was
charmed and amused at the uncouthness of the people and their dialect in
some places, and positive good breeding in others. Anthony unearthed a
college chum who was tally man at a sawmill. The new town was really
making progress. A small chapel had been started, a schoolhouse built.
And twenty years later it was a pretty town; in fifty years an
enterprising city.
"Anthony's going to be a first-class fellow. I should like to have such
a son. Chilian, you and I should have married and have sons and
daughters growing up. But at my time of life I should want them grown
up. And smart, as well. I always feel sorry for the fathers of dull
lads, when they have plenty of means to educate them. Yes, I should want
mine to have a good supply of brains."
Chilian Leverett enjoyed the change very much and the breath of spruce
and pine was invigorating. But there was a little nervous feeling about
Cynthia. Cousin Giles was somewhat of a lady's man, and he was on the
continual lookout that Cynthia should not tire herself unduly, that she
be assisted over the rough places, that she should have the best of
everything. He was almost jealous at times.
But Cynthia moved about gayly, serenely, full of merry little quips,
seizing the small ridiculous events with such a sense of amusement that
she inspirited them all. And he could not notice that she paid any more
attention to Anthony than either of her seniors. There was such a
genuine frankness in all she said and did, a charm of manner that was
just herself, and had none of the arts of society, but came from a heart
that overflowed with spontaneous warmth, but was not directed to any
particular person.
Cousin Giles declared he was sorry to get back to Boston. He could not
remember when he had enjoyed such a good time. Then in a business way it
had been a success, which added to his satisfaction.
They really had to stay in Boston one night. They would fain have kept
Cynthia for a week, but she said she was tired of just changing from one
frock to another, and longed for more variety.
"And I'm so glad to get back home again," she cried delightedly. "I've
had a splendid time, and I like Anthony ever so much. Cousin Giles was
so nice and fatherly. He ought to adopt Anthony and give him his name,
and that would always make me think of father. But after all, home is
best. Oh, suppose I was a waif, just being handed from one to another!"
She looked frightened with the imaginary lot. She expressed emotions so
easily.
"You couldn't have been;" hoarsely.
"Cousin Chilian, if you had not been in the world, or if you hadn't been
willing to take me--I don't think father knew much about Cousin
Giles--why, I must have gone to strangers."
There were tears in her eyes, and a sweet melancholy in her voice.
She had so much to tell Cousin Eunice that it seemed really as if she
had taken the journey with them. She put on Jane's faded gingham
sunbonnet and gave her voice a queer nasal twang, and talked as some of
the women did up there in the wilderness, who thought a city "must be an
awfully crowdy place an' she jes' didn't see how people managed to live
in it. An' as fer the sea, give her dry land every time."
Then she talked the French-English patois of the emigrants from Canada,
and told of their funny attire, and their log huts, sometimes with only
one big room, with a stone chimney in the centre, and sawed logs for
seats.
"They did that in Salem nigh on to two hundred years ago," said Cousin
Eunice.
"How much people do learn by living," remarked the little girl sagely.
Then the olden round began. Being asked out to tea and inviting in
return, sewing bees, quilting parties when some girl was making an
outfit. And though the elders shook their heads at such a waste of time,
they went out to walk in the afternoon and stopped in the shops that
were making a show on Essex Street and Federal Street. There was Miss
Rust's pretty millinery parlor--it had a sofa in the front room and a
table with an embroidered cover that Cynthia had sent her. They talked
of new styles and colors, and were aghast at the thought that royalty
sometimes had as many as twenty hats and bonnets. She made pretty old
lady caps as well, and she did love to hear the young girls chatter. And
Molly Saunders was still baking gingerbread, that had delighted them as
school children, and no one made such good spruce and sassafras beer.
One evening at a dance she had a great surprise. Some one said, "Miss
Cynthia Leverett, Mr. Marsh."
A rather tall, ruddy, good-looking fellow, with laughing eyes and an
unmistakable sailor air, held her dainty hand and studied her face.
"Oh, you don't know me!" in the jolliest of tones. "And I should know
you if you had been cast ashore on a rocky island and I were looking at
you through a spyglass. You haven't changed in the main, only to grow
prettier. You were a poor pale little thing then."
"Oh, I can't think!" She flushed and smiled. Something in the hearty
voice won her.
"At Dame Wilby's school. And the bad boy who sat behind you--Tommy
Marsh."
"Oh! oh! And that day I sat on the floor!" She laughed gayly. She did
not mind it a bit now.
"Wasn't it funny? And the way you just sat still with the school in an
uproar. You standing up there and 'sassing' back the old dame! Such a
mite of a thing, too. My! but you were a plucky one!" in admiration.
"And you never came to school after that. I ought to get down on my
knees and beg your pardon for the sly pinches I gave you, and the times
I tweaked your curly hair. I've half a mind to do it."
"Oh, no!" and she made a funny gesture of alarm, and both laughed.
"And I've been over there to India, where you came from, and found some
people who knew your father. I've been to sea seven years, three on this
last cruise, and when the Vixen is repaired and refitted I'm going out
again as first mate. One of these days I shall be a captain."
How proud and strong he looked. Why, one couldn't help liking him.
"I wonder if I might dance with you?"
"Oh, do you dance? I thought sailors--and there are no girls----" and
she blushed at her incoherence.
"I think we do a little. Where did you get the Sailor's Hornpipe from?
We're sorry about not having girls, but we make it answer. And when you
get in the doldrums, or becalmed, it stirs up your blood. Oh, they are
taking their places."
Ben was in the same quadrille. Every time he touched her hand he gave it
a pressure that made her cheeks rosier. Altogether it was a delightful
evening.
Cousin Chilian came for her. He had found she preferred it.
"Oh, Cousin Chilian, I've had such a funny adventure. Perhaps you can
recall the little boy I really hated that week I went to the dame's
school. Well, he is a nice big fellow now, and we had a talk, and he
has been to Calcutta and seen people who knew father. I want him to come
so we can have a good long talk, and won't you ask him? You'll like him,
I know. I'll find him and bring him to you, and you can ask him to come
while I'm putting on my things."
She hunted him up and he was very pleased to meet Mr. Leverett. She gave
them quite a while, for she was chatting with the girls about some
weddings on the tapis.
She gave Mr. Marsh her hand and a smile that would have set almost any
masculine heart beating. It must have been born with her, though it was
pitifully appealing in the childhood days. Now the true, sweet nature
shone through it, lending it a fascinating radiance.
Mr. Leverett said he should be glad to have him call while he was in
port, and the young man thanked him and said he should give himself the
pleasure.
"And when he does come," said the little lady in her half-coaxing,
half-imperious way, "can't we have him up in the study? You see, it does
very well for half a dozen of us to be down in the parlor, but it gets
kind of stiff and not cheerful with just one. And you'll like to talk to
him."
He assented readily. Ben always came up in the study, though now he
would rather have been alone with Cynthia. There were some things he
meant to say, if he ever had a chance, in spite of youth and
guardianship.
Mr. Marsh did not lose much time considering. The very next week he
called.
They found him a nice, agreeable, well-informed young man, a true sailor
lad, and like many a Yankee boy, he kept adding to his stock of
knowledge where-ever he went. He had drawn some useful charts of
seaports and islands he knew about, their products and climates, and
really his descriptions were as good as a geography.
"There's no doubt Salem has the lead in the foreign trade, but we're
going to be pushed hard the next few years. Other cities have found out
the profit in it. But we've some of the best captains, and that's what I
mean to be myself."
At Calcutta they still held a warm remembrance of Captain Anthony
Leverett. And Marsh thought it quite a wonderful thing that the little
girl had gone back and forth and braved all the perils. He told them of
a pirate ship they had once battled with and the rich stores they had
taken from her. The prisoners had been left on an island.
"But--how would they get to their homes?" she asked.
"Oh, that wasn't our lookout. They'd have done the same thing to us if
they could, maybe worse. Occasionally vessels are wrecked, and sometimes
it is months before a ship goes that way and sees their signal."
Yes, she was glad nothing of the kind had happened to her. And Chilian,
watching the little shiver, gave thanks also.
Thomas Marsh enjoyed these evenings wonderfully. He was always glancing
at Cynthia to see if what he said met with her approval. It seemed so
strangely sweet to be thrilled at the tones of her voice and the touch
of her hand. And when she looked up and smiled, the blood surged to his
brain. He was quite a favorite with the girls, but no other one had that
power over him.
Of course, they met here and there at the different companies--he never
went unless she was sure to be there, and if he asked she answered
frankly. Cousin Chilian took her down to see the Vixen, which was
nearly ready for her new cruise. He was very proud of her, so was
Captain Langfelt, and they had some tea in the cabin. But some sudden
knowledge came to Chilian Leverett, and he was sincerely glad the young
man was going away.
The evening Thomas Marsh came in to say good-bye, she was alone.
"You'll find Miss Cynthia up in the study," said Jane, and thither he
went two steps at a time. She had on a soft gown, and he thought she
looked like some lovely flower as she rose to greet him.
"I believe we are to sail to-morrow. Stores and cargo are all in, and
now the captain is in haste to be off. Come down about eleven in the
morning and wish me God-speed, a safe journey, and a happy return."
"Yes. We were talking of it to-day. Oh, I hope you will have all, though
a great many things happen in three years." Neither of them, indeed no
one, could have predicted what was to happen in those eventful three
years.
They discussed the pleasant times, the girls and boys who had grown up
and married during the whole seven years of his absence. Oh, how sweet
and pretty she was! He envied the boys like Bentley Upham and two or
three others who had business at home--but no, he never could have been
anything but a sailor.
Then he rose to go. He stood holding her hand and the red and white kept
flitting over her face, her eyes were so soft and dark. They would haunt
him many a night on the deck.
"It's best that I am going so soon," he began in a rather tremulous
voice. "Do you remember what your uncle was reading the other day about
the man who wanted to be lashed to the mast when they passed the Syrens?
It would be that way with me if I staid much longer. I--I wouldn't be
able to help loving you, and I doubt whether it would be a good thing
for either of us. I've tried all along to keep it to a plain, honest
like, but I know now it is more than that. I shall take away with me the
remembrance of the sweetest girl in all the world, and I have no right
to spoil her life. But sometimes maybe you'll think of a far-away lad,
who sends you his love and the best wishes for your happiness with the
man you will love best of all."
Then he pressed her hand to his lips and went slowly down the stairs.
She heard the door shut. And, foolish girl, she sat down and cried, and
there Cousin Chilian found her, and had to listen and absolve.
"No," he said, "it would not do for you to have a sailor lad. Your
tender heart would break with the anxiety. He's a nice, upright fellow,
and he will never shirk a duty. But you----" What should he say to her?
"I want to stay here. Oh, I wonder if you will like me when I get as old
as Cousin Eunice, and the world will change and improve and I shall be
queer and old-fashioned?"
He held her in his arms, but he was shocked to find what was in his own
heart.
CHAPTER XVI
PERILOUS PATHS
Avis Manning's "Company" was one of the events of the season. She was a
full-fledged young lady, and knowing she could have her choice of the
young men of Salem, was rather difficult to capture. She and her
brother-in-law were very good friends, but not lovers. And Laura, who
knew where his fancy lay, counselled him to go slowly, though she was
quite sure he would win in the end.
"You see, she is like a child to Mr. Chilian Leverett, and he is loath
to part with her. But all girls do marry sooner or later, and he isn't
selfish enough to want her to stay single. If he was not so much older
he might marry her--they are not own cousins, you know."
"He marry her! Why, he's getting to be quite an old man," and there was
a touch of disdain in his tone. "But there's half a dozen others----"
"It's queer, but she isn't a flirt. She's one of the sweetest of
girls--she was, at school. And with her fortune she might hold herself
high. They say the Boston trustee has doubled some of it that he
invested."
"I wish she hadn't a cent!" the young man flung out angrily.
"Well, money is not to be despised. She'll get a little tired by and by,
and long for a home and children of her own, as we all do. And if you
haven't found any one else----"
"I never shall find any one like her;" gloomily.
"Oh, there are a great many nice girls in the world."
Avis knew all the best people in Salem, it was not so large, after all.
And they came to the beautiful house and made merry, played "guessing
words"--what we call charades, quite a new thing then--and it made no
end of merriment. Of course, Cynthia was in them, was arch and piquant,
and delighted the audience. Then they had supper and more dancing. One
of the Turner boys, Archibald, hovered about Cynthia like a shadow.
There was Ben Upham, but Edward Saltonstall warded them off to her
satisfaction. But Bella Turner was shortly to be married, and Archie
would have her for that evening surely.
She and Mr. Saltonstall were very good friends. He was a little older
than the others, and grown wary by experience. But it was queer that
half a dozen girls were pulling straws for him and here was one who did
not care, would not raise a finger, but, oh, how sweet her smiles were.
"If you are a bridesmaid the third time, you will never be a bride,"
said some of the wiseacres.
Cynthia tossed her proud, dainty head and laughed over it to Cousin
Chilian. He looked a little grave.
"Would you mind if I were an old maid? I wouldn't really be old in a
long while, you know. And you will always want some one. If anything
should happen to Cousin Eunice, how lonely you would be."
"Yes, if you went away."
"I don't care for any of them very much. I like Mr. Saltonstall the
best. He isn't quite so young, so--so sort of impetuous. And the boys
get jealous."
Then it was likely to be Mr. Saltonstall, after all! Was he going to be
narrow and mean enough to keep her out of what was best in a woman's
life? But he looked down the dreary years without her. He could not
attach himself to the world of business as Cousin Giles did. Some of
these young fellows might come into a sort of sonship with him--there
was Anthony Drayton.
Why was it his soul protested against them? He did not understand the
deep underlying dissent that made a cruel discordance in his desire for
her happiness.
Mr. Saltonstall walked home from church with her and Miss Winn. And he
came in one evening to ask some advice. He had cudgelled his brain for
days to find just the right subject. That ended, they had a talk about
chess--that was becoming quite an interest in some circles. There were
several moves that puzzled him.
"Come in some evening and talk them over," said Mr. Leverett.
Edward Saltonstall wondered at the favor of the gods and accepted. Not
as if he was in any vulgar hurry, but he dropped in, politely social,
and asked if he should disturb them. Chilian had been reading Southey's
"Thalaba."
"Oh, no. We often read in the evening," said Cynthia.
She was netting a bead bag, an industry all the rage then among the
women. They really were prettier than the samplers. But she rose and
brought the box of chessmen, while he rolled the table from its corner.
"Will I disturb you if I stay?" she asked.
"Not unless it interferes with Mr. Saltonstall's attention," said
Chilian, then bit his lip.
"Oh, I do not think it will;" smilingly.
"You are very good to bother with a tyro. I'd like to be able to play a
good game. Father is so fond of it, and Lynde seldom comes in
nowadays--family cares;" laughingly.
They led off very well. Saltonstall was wise enough to try his best,
though out of one eye he watched the dainty fingers threading in and out
among the colored beads, and could not help thinking he would rather be
holding them and pressing kisses on the soft white hand. Then he made a
wrong play.
"We may as well turn back," said Mr. Leverett, "since the question at
stake is not winning, but improving."
"You are very good," returned the young man meekly.
This time they went on a little further, but the result was the same. So
with the third game.
"Of course, I could let you win," Mr. Leverett began, "but that wouldn't
conduce to the real science of the game which a good player desires. But
you do very well for a young man. I should keep on, if I were you."
"And annoy you with my shortcomings?"
"Oh, it will not be annoyance, truly. Come in when you feel like it."
"Thank you." Then he said good-night in a friendly, gentlemanly manner,
and Cynthia rose and bowed.
After that she gathered up her work and said good-night. Chilian sat and
thought. Edward Saltonstall was a nice, steady young fellow; that is, he
neither gamed, nor drank, nor went roystering round in the taverns
jollying with the sailors, as some of the sons of really good families
did. He would not have all his fortune to make, and his father's
business was well established. The sons would take it. The two daughters
were well married. What more could he ask for Cynthia? She was not so
young now and would know her own mind.
Yet it gave his heart a sharp, mysterious wrench, a longing for what he
was putting away, the essence of the solemn ideals of love that run
through the intricate meshes of the human soul. He knew that he loved
her, that he wanted her for his very own, and his conscience told him it
was not right. Of all her admirers he liked this one the best. Under
other circumstances he would have considered him an admirable young man.
Saltonstall dropped in now and then, not too often. He did not mean to
startle any one with his purpose, but to let it grow gradually. Still,
at the last assembly of the season, his attentions were somewhat
pronounced. It was partly her doings, she was sheltering herself from
other rather warm indications.
A few days later she went over to Polly Loring's with her work. Polly's
bag had somehow gone wrong. Cynthia had to cut the thread and ravel out
a round. The baby was to be admired as well as the chair seat Polly had
begun in worsted work, which was the new accomplishment. And they talked
over various matters: who had new gowns, new lovers, and new babies. But
every time she came almost to the subject so near her heart, Cynthia
made an elusive detour. Then she ventured out straight with her
question.
"Cynthia, are you going to take Ed Saltonstall?"
Cynthia's face was scarlet.
"He hasn't asked me, he hasn't even asked Cousin Chilian," but her voice
was not quite steady.
"How do you know? It was talked of at the assembly--the two men were a
good deal together. And if you don't mean anything, Cynthia, you'll get
yourself gossiped about, and you'll spoil some lives," declared Polly
spiritedly. This thing had been seething in her mind, and she was going
to have it out at the risk of breaking friendship.
"I don't want to spoil any one's life. And I've never really kept
company with any one."
The keeping company was the great test. When the young man came steady
one night in the week, to Sunday tea, and went to church with the girl
alone, the matter was as good as declared.
"But--well, I don't know how you've done it, but they hang about you and
it does upset them. First it's one, then it's another. You ought to
know. You ought to settle upon one and let the others alone."
Polly had acquired a good deal of married wisdom, and she really did
love Cynthia. Ben loved her, too.
"But suppose I didn't want any of them?" and Cynthia tried to laugh, but
it was a poor shadowy attempt.
"Oh, nonsense! You don't mean to be an old maid. No girl does. But it is
time you stopped playing fast and loose with hearts. Now there's Ben.
You know he's loved you this long while. And we all like you so. Last
fall he quite gave up and went to see Jenny Willing. She'll make a good
wife and she's a nice girl, though she hasn't your fortune. Mother's
been trying to make him believe that you are looking higher."
"Oh, Polly--I never scarcely think of my fortune," Cynthia interrupted,
her face full of distressful color.
"Well, I'm not saying that you do. Ben's getting along first-rate. He
has a college degree and father isn't poor. I know several girls who
would jump at a chance for him. Of course, we would all rather have
you. Then at Avis Manning's party you gave him the sweetest of your
smiles, and lured him back."
Oh, she recalled it with a kind of shame. It was to keep off Archie
Turner and Mr. Saltonstall. And then for a while he had grown
troublesome. If they could be merely friends!
"The thing is just here, Cynthia. I know I'm speaking plainly and you
may get angry. If you don't want Ben, let him alone. A young man begins
to think of a home and a wife of his own, and when he likes a girl very
much--yes, I will say it, she can make or mar. She can take him away
from some other nice girl. And people now are beginning to say you are a
flirt. I think Jenny will make Ben a nice wife, and if you don't want
him----"
"Oh, Polly, I don't want any of them. You can't think how delightful
life is with Cousin Chilian. I couldn't be as happy anywhere else, or
with any other person. I can't make myself fall in love as all of you
girls have, and think this one or that one perfect. Something must be
wrong with me. And I'm very sorry. I'm not a bit jealous when they take
to other girls. Why, I'd be glad to be Jenny's bridesmaid if she wanted
me to."
Cynthia paused and mopped the tears from her cheeks. Polly was a little
subdued. Cynthia was taking this so meekly. But she said rather
spitefully, "You had better marry Mr. Leverett."
Ah, Polly, it was a dangerous seed to fling at a young girl. And it
dropped on a bit of out of the way fruitful soil.
Cynthia rose quietly. She was very pale. She began to roll up her work.
"Now I think you can go on with it," she said. "If you get in trouble
again, let me know."
Then the two friends looked at each other until the tears came into
their eyes.
"I'm very sorry," murmured Cynthia in a broken voice.
"But you see----"
"Yes. I understand. I hope Ben will be very happy."
Afterward Polly sat down and cried. She knew Ben loved Cynthia so. They
had counted on having her in the family. But she felt quite certain now
that Ed Saltonstall would get her. And he was a flirt, going with every
pretty girl, every new girl for a little while.
Cynthia went home in a very sober mood. Why had they all cared so much
about her? They had nice attractive qualities, but why could they not
look at her just as she looked at them! She did not know very much about
men and that with them pursuit often merged into the strong desire for
possession, which she did not understand. But she did not want to be
blamed. She would have none of them. Cousin Chilian was more to her. If
he seldom danced and was never very gay, there were so many other
requirements to life; there was something in his nature to which hers
responded readily.
Then suddenly she seemed to have lost the clue. She experienced a season
of bewilderment. Was Cousin Chilian meaning she should take Mr.
Saltonstall for a lover? He surely gave him opportunities he had given
no other. Sometimes he excused himself and went out. There were some
difficulties with the mother country that men were discussing. She
really felt a little awkward at being left alone with Mr. Saltonstall.
Not only that, but it awoke a strange terror in her soul that he should
come so near; it was as if her whole being rose in arms.
Occasionally Chilian spoke of her marriage--he had always said she was
too young, in a protesting manner. So on one occasion she gained
courage.
