have time for half the things she had planned 
to do. The walks had to be abridged, though 
she did try to get a short ramble in the 
morning. Now and then she met Mr. Hildreth 
and had a nice talk. There had been several 
visits, once to dinner with just Mrs. Stirling, 
when she had a fine opportunity to inspect the 
library. Twice when there had been several 
guests, with Mrs. Underwood as the enter- 
tainer. But these walks were a great delight 
to her. The talks always began with the school 
and branched off into books they both liked 
and why they liked them. 
As for other invitations, cordial as they were 
she felt they must be declined at least until 
after vacation. Examinations began. Miss 
Parker had worked steadily and well, and 
there would be quite an influx in the high 
school. 
“ We shall have our senior class,” Helen an- 
nounced triumphantly, “ unless you exercise a 
severe censorship. Seven * boys, and not a 
girl! And I am puzzled about the juniors. 
There are eight girls who ought to enter, but 
truly they are not well prepared. Here is 
the list.” 
Mr. Underwood glanced it over and drew 
his brow into a little frown. 
“ There are three mothers here that we shall 
make bitter enemies if we do not advance their 
daughters. Why not give them two years in 
the junior? In another year or two we can 
show our independence and keep to the true 
standard. What do you propose to do with 
your poet ? ” 
Helen laughed and flushed. “ She is not 
my discovery and I despair of cultivating the 
true poetic art. A great many girls write 
verses in their school days,  green and salad 
days ’ some one calls them, then they marry, 
and the care of this weary world extinguishes 
the divine afflatus. I wish it might be so with 
Miss Winters.” 
“ That’s capital. She is fairly pretty; bright, 
when she is not unduly sentimental. I’m sorry 
the Gazette took her up. Still I suppose the 
town can endure one half-fledged genius.” 
“ She is so sure of her poetic gift that I have 
not felt equal to combating it, though I have 
 
set her at some rather hard reading. There 
are poetic natures. Allen Millard has one, 
and several of the smaller girls have almost di- 
vine appreciation. But this is a flow of beauti- 
ful words and a facility of rhyming, with a 
great paucity of ideas. We do get tired of 
starry skies and stars dancing in their orbit, 
and bluest heaven and all that.” 
“Well, we will hope for better things next 
year. It has been hard, uphill work, but I 
think the worst is over, Miss Grant.” 
He had been watching the doubt in her face. 
Now their eyes met. She flushed, tried to 
speak, but there was merely a quiver of the lip. 
“ Oh, surely, surely, you will come back ! 
The appointment has been settled upon. We 
cannot let you go.” 
“ I have not decided,” in a wavering tone. 
He sprang up and began to pace back and 
forth in a sort of surprised agitation. 
“ Miss Grant, the work, your work is only 
half done. I wonder that you have accom- 
plished so much. I was a little doubtful when 
you first came, but I have no doubt now. Let 
me tell you what Dinsmore’s father said a few 
nights ago. ‘ That school-teacher of yours is 
A i. I didn't know my boy could be improved 
so much. Why, he’s grown studious and polite 
and has developed a thoughtfulness that is un- 
usual in a growing boy. And he has given up 
cigarettes. He’s neater and cleaner and quite 
refined.’ ” 
“ But a good deal of that is due to Dick’s 
accident. They have been very kind and 
friendly with him, and I think even he looks at 
things differently. Isn’t there any improve- 
ment ? ” 
Mr. Underwood shook his head slowly. 
“ They are afraid it will have to come to an 
operation. It’s mighty hard for the poor lad. 
There is a difference in the boys, I can see that 
myself. I have tried to persuade several of 
them to give up the pernicious habit of smok- 
ing while they are so young. I gave up smok- 
ing in the street for the sake of the example, 
but Mrs. Underwood always inveighed against 
it as ungentlemanly. But to come back to our 
subject. You have nothing else in view?” 
She answered with a negative motion of the 
head. Somehow she could not trust her voice. 
 
“ Then stay, stay. I want you. I should 
not know how to get on without you. We 
have come to be real friends, I think; at least 
it is a most enjoyable and satisfactory friend- 
ship to me. I trust to your judgment as I 
would to a much older person. Why, I should 
feel like throwing up the thing. Mr. Hildreth 
will never consent. Oh, promise me you will 
not think of going! You must stay and enjoy 
the fruit of your labors. And next year we 
will have a real commencement.” 
“ I have hardly had time to consider it. The 
days have been so full.” 
“ Then do not think. I shall set Mr. Hil- 
dreth at persuading you. Oh, he will not let 
you go ! His very heart is set upon the success 
of the school. And really we cannot afford to 
have it anything else. We must not make 
ourselves the butt of the county.” 
“ I should want no other persuasion save 
yours, and the proffer of your friendship. 
Thank you for your good opinion and all your 
kindness.” 
“ You deserve it, and more. Did you have a 
bad ten minutes with the girls on account of 
the refusal? Mrs. Winters went at me on the 
same subject, but I convinced her we had no 
grounds to go upon. It will take all our ener- 
gies for the closing exercises.” 
Harry White consented to do his best, and 
under Mr. Underwood’s supervision composed 
a really creditable address, but he insisted that 
he should learn it by heart and deliver it as a 
speech. 
The girls forgot their tiff and took quite an 
interest in the exercises. The ground floor 
had been arranged for an auditorium or lecture 
room when necessary, and was quite com- 
modious. The children had trimmed it with 
branches of greenery and bloom, and long be- 
fore the hour the audience began to assemble. 
Mr. Underwood was really proud of the num- 
bers. The platform was draped with flags and 
some tall jars of flowers and ferns were dis- 
posed around. 
There was a fine chorus from the children. 
An interesting address from Mr. Hildreth on 
the prosperity that had attended the venture, 
and on the general improvement of the town. 
There followed the usual speaking and sing- 
 
ing, and Harry White’s speech was received 
with rapturous applause, as in an earnest, manly 
way he recapitulated the efforts that had been 
made for the boys’ welfare and their own re- 
solves to make the best of the opportunities be- 
fore them, promising that friends and parents 
would find a great improvement another year. 
He was followed by Mr. Underwood, who 
made a brief, felicitous address and delivered 
the diplomas, tied with white ribbons for the 
girls and red for the boys, quite a number of 
whom would enter the high school. After that 
came the parting song, and then the personal 
congratulations. It seemed to Helen as if she 
would never get through. 
“I just think I might have had a chance with 
my poem,” Georgia Winters said to her 
mother. “ It would have been quite as good 
as that speech of Harry White’s.” 
‘“Your turn will come presently,” consoled 
Mrs. Winters, though she felt rather annoyed. 
Some one took her arm gently and Helen 
turned to face Mr. Eastman. 
“ Dick would make me come, and the whole 
thing has been splendid. Mr. Hildreth must 
be a proud man to-night,” he began in a tone 
of hearty admiration. “ But you look very 
tired. Miss Grant, I want to ask a great favor. 
You know perhaps that Dick is to go to a 
hospital,” and the father’s voice had a tremble 
in it. “ These doctors cannot do anything 
more for him and this is our last hope. He 
wants to see you very much. Oh, will you not 
come to-morrow afternoon? My poor boy — to 
think he has missed all this. Here is a note 
he sent, but he wanted you to promise me ” 
and his voice broke. 
“ I promise you,” she replied without a mo- 
ments hesitation. 
“ Oh, thank you ! He was so afraid ” 
“ Tell him I, too, wish he had been 
here. Yes, I will come,” she replied, much 
moved. 
The throngs went hither and thither. It had 
really been a gala night. Helen’s head was in 
a whirl with congratulations and invitations. 
She was glad to get home and went straight to 
her room. 
Richard Eastman’s note was brief and writ- 
ten with a very shaky hand. 
 
“ Dear Miss Grant : I do not deserve that 
you should take pity on me, but I am going 
away, as perhaps father will tell you, and I 
want to see you very, very much. Dick.'' 
“ Poor fellow ! ” she sighed. And if she had 
not fully and freely forgiven him before she 
did then. 
She slept late the next morning, but she did 
not sleep away all the fatigue. There had been 
a very severe strain all the week. And when 
she came downstairs, Lilian had set out all the 
gifts of the children. Booklets, scrap-bags, 
and even some pretty doilies they had worked 
themselves; vases, and a chain of beads. 
“ Why, it looks like Christmas ! ” she ex- 
claimed gayly. “ I didn’t think so many 
cared.” 
“ Oh, Miss Grant, they were all praising 
you so heartily ! And I don’t wonder,” Lilian 
ended. 
There were letters to write and a host of 
things to do, but she went out on the cool porch 
and lay in the hammock. She kept thinking 
of Dick; she dreaded and yet she wished to see 
him. The doctors had admitted that it was a 
very grave matter. 
A step came up the walk and a tall figure 
shadowed her. But before she could stir Mr. 
Hildreth held up his hand commandingly. 
“ I am glad to see you taking it easy after 
all the stress, but not storm,” smiling. “ Every- 
thing went off in a most admirable fashion. I 
know there never was so much attention paid 
to closing exercises before. How finely that 
lad, Harry White, acquitted himself ! He has 
the making of an orator in him. Next year we 
will have a high school commencement. I 
heard some of the girls were deeply disap- 
pointed.” 
“ But they understood how it was. I think 
the boys have improved wonderfully. They 
ought to be very grateful to you.” 
“ They or their fathers ? ” with a humorous 
intonation, seating himself in a veranda chair. 
“ Some of the fathers are, I know,” Helen 
returned. 
“ I have been very remiss about another 
matter, and have come to make amends before 
you see it in this evening’s paper. At the 
school meeting on Tuesday evening you were 
unanimously appointed for the ensuing year. 
It’s a mere matter of form.” 
“ But suppose I had decided not to return ? ” 
with fascinating archness. 
“ Then, Miss Grant, we should proceed to 
extremities. You would be taken a prisoner 
and kept in close confinement until the first 
Monday in September. Mr. Underwood and 
myself would be the jailers.” 
“ That sounds dreadful to an innocent 
person.” 
“ You had not thought — why, we couldn’t 
spare you ! ” and there was resolve in his 
face. 
“ That is very flattering,” and her eyes 
sparkled with mirth. 
“ If we took a vote of the pupils, there 
would be hardly a dissenting voice.” 
She thought she knew of two or three. 
“ It would be a greater trial to Mr. Under- 
wood than you imagine. He said you had 
worked together so harmoniously and that he 
had found some of your newer methods ad- 
mirable. You had not seriously thought ” 
There was almost consternation visible in his 
face. 
“ I have been so engrossed I had hardly 
thought at all. I will admit the work does in- 
terest me deeply. I like to go on with what- 
ever I undertake. So I shall accept without 
any demur.’ 
“ Thank you most cordially. I suppose you 
have planned your vacation?” 
“ No. I have not really planned anything. 
I shall go to Grey Court to my friend. Then 
I have visits and visits piled up. I don’t know 
how I shall get through.” 
His face fell into grave lines. She wondered 
if somewhere along life he had not experi- 
enced a great sorrow. 
“ Yes, first of all you must have a rest.” 
“ And next week I am invited out to lunch- 
eons and dinners, three or four a day. I shall 
feel as they did in old times when the school 
teacher boarded round,” and she laughed 
gayly. 
“ I shall speak for one. Miss Grant, you 
have no idea how I shall miss you. And the 
school interest. Last year it was the building. 
 
And now I shall have nothing to do. Though 
I suppose a man ought never to say that, with 
all the work there is in the world. But some 
work has a more vital interest than other 
work.” 
She could not imagine his not having a vital 
interest in everything, a man with his wide 
sympathies. Would he miss her? Would he 
really be glad to have her back again? She 
recalled her girlish admiration for Mr. Wil- 
marth and the home that had seemed the em- 
bodiment of delightful satisfaction. If there 
were only a charming Mrs. Hildreth — and she 
could go in and out as a daughter of the 
house. 
“ What were you thinking of? ” he asked in 
her reverie of silence. 
She flushed warmly. “Of some people I 
knew at Hope when I was only a girl,” she an- 
swered. 
If she had raised her eyes she would have 
been amazed at the sudden gravity of his face, 
something akin to a hurt. 
Then he rose. “ The Underwoods will come 
for a sort of good-by visit. Suppose I invite 
the Hendersons. I think I forget how young 
you are and it ought to be young people in- 
stead.” 
“ No. Oh, I do believe I have outgrown the 
young people, they seem crude to me ! ” and 
she raised a smiling face. 
“ No, you must not do that,” he protested 
earnestly. “ But I think you are the sort of 
person who will keep youth, true vital youth, 
a long while. I can’t imagine your growing 
old.” 
“ But the years they come and the years 
they go,’ ” she quoted. 
He said good-morning and turned away. 
Oh ! she would be very sorry to have him go 
out of her life. She experienced a sudden and 
unreasonable gladness that she had decided to 
come back for another year. 
Did she fall asleep in that delicious morn- 
ing air, in the glow of youth and vague pres- 
ences that no brain could analyze, that seemed 
to be waiting in the future? For she was sur- 
prised when Lilian called her in to lunch. And 
she had meant to think about Dick Eastman. 
But she knew by experience that there was no 
 
use in planning what one should do or say. 
Yet she shrank a little from the interview. 
One cannot see helplessness without a heart- 
ache. 
Mr. Eastman opened the door for her and 
took her hand in the kind of clasp that gives 
a warm assurance of pleasure. 
“ Take off your hat,” he said, “ and I'll con- 
voy you up to Dick, who has been waiting. 
You need not be afraid of agitating him, 
though you’ll find him weak and babyish. It 
was so good of you to come.” 
How strangely still the house seemed. It 
was, of course, handsomely furnished. The 
parlor doors were wide apart — she had heard 
about the~ splendid Christmas party when 
everything was so beautiful. 
Up the softly carpeted stairs they went. 
Dick had been moved to one of the guest 
rooms, that was elegantly appointed without 
being overloaded, and much more convenient 
and spacious than his. There was a center 
table with papers and magazines, a small book- 
case, and some fine pictures to entertain the 
weary eye. 
“ Miss Grant has come, Dick,” the father 
said in a cheery voice, and then he left her on 
the threshold. 
Helen went straight to the side of the bed 
and put out her hand. She had seen him in 
that deadly unconsciousness, but he was thin- 
ner now, and his eyes seemed so large and 
dark, set in the pallid face. 
He took it, and she stood there a moment 
profoundly stirred by the great change. 
“ Will you sit down, please? Bring the chair 
up near. I want to talk and there is so much 
to say. You have heard, I suppose, that the 
next step for me is the hospital ? ” 
“ Yes. And I hope ” 
“ Everybody gives me good wishes. No one 
can tell. Oh, when you have lain here 
weeks — it seems a year to me, and there is no 
improvement! Well, for father’s sake I’d go 
through everything, though somehow I 
haven’t much hope. But that wasn’t what I 
want to talk about. When a fellow has lain 
here day after day, all alive mentally, but 
helpless to move about, and watched the stars 
through sleepless nights, he thinks of many 
 
things, all of the past. And when he may 
never come back to make amends ” 
The tears overflowed and wandered down 
the thin cheeks. He brushed them quietly 
away. 
“ You see what a baby I have grown.” 
“Oh, Dick, don't mind any of the past! 
You know I couldn’t hold it against you. Let 
it all go,” she interrupted. 
“ No, I can’t let it go without a word. I’m 
not going to ask you to  forgive me for some of 
the worst, but I do want to tell you how sorry 
and ashamed I am. You saved my life by find- 
ing me just as you did, and taking so much 
trouble. Mr. Underwood told me. They 
thought me dead and almost gave up, but 
father wouldn’t let them. Then there were 
two weeks when I lay like a log — only a log 
couldn’t breathe and I did. And then I came 
back to life, but something had gone wrong 
with my back. They put me in the plaster cast 
and that hasn’t done any good. There’s some 
pain — I could stand that, but to lie here help- 
less — and I am so young. And when I came 
to face the fact, oh, Miss Grant, I don’t want 
Helen went straight to the side of the bed and put out 
her hand. 
to die! Life is such a splendid thing and the 
world is so beautiful.” 
“ Oh, Dick, don't think of that! Surgeons 
do such wonderful things now.” 
“ Oh, I’ve caught a word or two. But the 
choice is between lying here for years and suf- 
fering, or that. For father’s sake I’m going 
to take that. And I want you to believe that 
from the outset I had nothing against you as 
Miss Grant, but it was the boyish contrariness, 
the love of not giving in, of showing that I 
wasn’t going to be ruled or advised by a 
woman. And yet I did just the same thing to 
a young man over at Ridgewood. I’ve had my 
own way in ’most everything through love, and 
it hasn’t been a good thing — as father and I 
see now. Miss Grant, he’s the most splendid 
father ” 
Dick covered his face a moment with his 
handkerchief. The ready tears flashed to Hel- 
en’s eyes. She reached over and took his hand. 
“ I was in that Hallowe’en mischief. It was 
my plan, and only one boy helped. We did it 
for a scare. I never thought of the log fall- 
ing against any one, but when such a fuss was 
 
made about it we were pretty well scared our- 
selves and tried to throw the escapade on some 
of the mill boys. I don't know how I could 
have been so mean and cruel to a woman, only 
in the grammar school I used to torment Miss 
Parker. But she wasn't young and pretty and 
sweet, and she had Mr. Underwood right back 
of her. I just took a delight in butting up 
against everything and making believe I 
didn’t know things when I did, just to make 
the others laugh. And you remember about 
the excuse I didn’t bring and the wretched ex- 
ercise? Mr. Underwood said then that if I 
went on this way, being such a bad influence, 
I should be expelled. He told father, and 
father said if that occurred he would send me 
to a strict military school. I was having good 
fun at home and being indulged in everything 
and wanted to stay here. So I was more care- 
ful. Only — only — yes, you must hear it all, 
I did get in with some fellows, not in the club 
but outside, and we played cards, betting and 
drinking beer. I wish I could blot all that out. 
I look at that boy and think he ought to have 
been horsewhipped.” 
“ Oh, Dick, you are tired ! Let all the rest 
go. I forgave it — when I looked at you that 
day and was afraid you might be dead. Do 
you think I could have held any sense of 
offense against you ? ” 
There was a silence of several minutes, and 
she could hear the breath that came so irregu- 
larly. 
“ I had been drinking something stronger 
than beer that last afternoon. Oh ! I wish I 
could get out on my knees to you and tell you 
how shameful I thought that wicked thing was! 
I'd made a bet with the boys — why, it seems 
to me now that any tough of them all would 
hardly have done such a dastardly act. If I 
should never come back here except in a coffin, 
you may forgive me out of pure charity then, 
but you can go on holding it against me ” 
“ Oh, Dick, no! no! I told you I forgave it 
long ago. I have had nothing but sincerest 
sympathy for you through all this dreadful 
time.” 
“ I could better forgive myself if I had 
kissed you on the impulse of the moment. You 
looked so pretty that day, and there was al- 
 
most a dimple in your cheek; there is when 
you smile, but to do it that way ! Oh ! I do de- 
spise myself. I've been so mean and I have 
hated mean things in other boys, except when 
I set them afloat. It always seemed small and 
cowardly to me to repent when you couldn't 
help yourself, but I had to do this. I’ve gone 
over it so many times by myself until I’ve said, 
‘ It serves you just right, Dick Eastman, that 
this thing should happen to you. No one pun- 
ished you for all the bad until God took it in 
hand.’ You know that ministers say these 
things are a judgment. Now I have mine.” 
“ I don’t know that I quite believe that. I 
think God lets us go on in our own way when 
we are so resolved to have it, until we do some- 
thing that brings about the punishment. There 
are times when it seems as if He interfered 
out of divine pity and saved us from the worst. 
But we have no warrant for trusting to that. 
And we have our own willfulness to blame.” 
“I do believe that is so. I had the boys 
with me and they found fault with the way I 
was spinning along. We had a scrap and they 
would get out. Larry said he couldn't trust 
me. That made me mad. Something went a 
little wrong but I was bound to make the old 
thing go. That’s all I remember. Then I 
punished myself.” 
“ God allowed you to have your own 
way.” 
It was strange, he thought, that he should 
remember the events of that afternoon so 
clearly. He wanted the boys to stop and have 
a glass of beer. Larry said, “ You’re too full 
now, Dick Eastman,” and that had angered 
him. Then Benson insisted upon getting out 
and he had told them both to go. After that he 
w^as reckless. It seemed only a few moments, 
but he had gone a mile or more when he turned 
into the lower road, where it had all ended. 
A faint color had crept up into his wan 
cheeks. Yes, he did have himself to blame, it 
was no real accident. It was will against a bit 
of machinery, and the inanimate could not 
transgress its bounds. 
“ And you have done so well without me,” 
with a long sigh in his voice. “ Oh, it was so 
good when they let me see the boys. I’d had a 
kind of jealous dislike to Henderson and was 
 
bound that he shouldn’t be the boss. But he 
is a better fellow and a better leader, and I am 
glad for your sake. I might have done all this 
for you and won your respect, instead of hav- 
ing been a bad influence and tried to set up the 
others and laugh them out of the best, out of 
their duty. Oh, I knew all the time I was in 
the wrong, the more shame to me ! And while 
I’ve been lying here in pain and humiliation, 
the boys have been winning Mr. Underwood’s 
approbation and getting promoted to the first 
senior class of our high school. It just stings 
me through and through ! They brought in 
their books and read over the lessons and 
translations, and worked out some examples 
for me to see. They were so good. I shall 
never forget it.” 
“ They have been splendid. They have dis- 
tanced the girls.” 
“ Some of the girls are not much in the way 
of students,” he said rather disdainfully. 
“ But I am glad for your sake and Mr. Un- 
derwood’s. He thinks he couldn’t have done 
so much but for you. After all, he is a fine 
teacher. Oh, I do wonder why we can’t ap- 
preciate all that is done for us until long after- 
ward. What fools we are ! ” 
“ Are you not very tired? ” she said softly. 
“ Oh, I was very quiet all the morning. The 
nurse had a holiday. Miss Grant, how did you 
come to find me? Just along there the road is 
rather lonely.” 
“ Why, it was quite odd. I went further in 
the woods than I meant, lured by some wild 
flowers. Then I turned the wrong way, mean- 
ing to get out, tried two different paths, found 
a wagon road where they had been hauling 
logs, and so came out. I passed the auto, then 
looking back, I saw something lying there.” 
“ I suppose there would have been an alarm. 
I told the boys I was going to Glendale, but 
I changed my mind. In fact, it was full of 
changes that afternoon. O, dear! If I could 
go back.” 
Ah! what a frequent cry, always in vain! 
“We can never do that,” in her comforting 
voice that seemed to take the sting out of the 
hard truth. “ But the privilege given us some- 
time is of showing others how to avoid 
dangers.” 
 
“When they are not pig-headed and bound 
to go against common sense.” 
“ I think after a while the burden of these 
old sins and mistakes is buried after the prom- 
ise of the divine love, and that is what the 
Savior meant when He said, ‘ Let the dead 
bury their dead.’ We must begin a new life 
when we see the better way. Oh, Dick, there 
have been writers and statesmen who have 
been disabled in some respects and yet done 
worthy work. Somehow I feel you are going 
through this without too great a cost.” 
Dared she give him hope? 
“ Well,” after a long pause, swallowing 
over the great throbs in his throat, “if it 
should be the worst, won’t you comfort father 
a little and let him talk to you about me? He 
loves me so ! I’m not half as good as he thinks, 
though I have told him about everything. And 
he will be so lonely. There should have been 
some better children to be his stay and com- 
fort and pride. And he thinks, the doctor as 
well, that if I had lain there an hour or two 
longer it would have been all over with me; so 
that I really owe my life to you. If I should 
ever be permitted to make anything worthy of 
it, I think it will be largely owing to you,” 
and his tremulous voice died away. 
“ Oh, Dick, you look clear exhausted and I 
must go ! Every day I shall think of you, pray 
for you. And you must have no more upbraid- 
ing thoughts about those old matters. I know 
it will be a hard thing to live out of, but God 
will give you strength if you ask Him ear- 
nestly.” 
Helen rose then and stood looking at him 
with tenderest sympathy. Suddenly she 
leaned over and pressed a kiss on the blue- 
veined forehead. His arms were up around 
her, his tears were on her cheek. 
“Helen — may I call you that just once? — 
it is such a noble name ! I wish God had given 
me just such a sister.” 
She went slowly out of the room. She could 
not trust her voice to say good-by. Mr. East- 
man came out in the hall. 
“ When are you going? ” she asked tremu- 
lously. 
“ The first of the week. He was not will- 
ing to leave until after the closing exercises. 
 
And he wanted a good long talk with you. Is 
it all right ? ” hesitatingly. 
“ It was never very wrong,” she answered. 
“ I think he would have seen it himself pres- 
ently. Oh, I hope ” 
“ I hardly dare. I shall stay down until the 
fateful question is settled. I am so much 
obliged to you for coming.” 
Then he pressed her hand warmly. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
THE CROWNING OF THE YEAR 
Helen thought it strange afterward that 
Dick had never mentioned his mother. Neither 
had Mr. Eastman spoken of her. She was at 
home, at least she was not away on any visit. 
In a way, Helen would have felt sorry for her 
if she had seen her lying on the couch in her 
own room, crying by spells and wondering 
what Dick had wanted of Miss Grant when he 
had always disliked her so. She would make 
him worse with all her talk, and he needed 
every bit of strength. And that horrid opera- 
tion to come — would they find something dis- 
placed and a hump grow out of it ? Some one 
had mentioned such a contingency. Her 
straight, strong, fine-looking son! She knew 
he would rather be dead than disfigured, and 
how could she endure it! 
Much as she loved him and thought she 
loved her husband, everything revolved about 
 
 
herself. She was sure she had suffered in 
every pain and ache of his, and she always 
cried over him in her visits until sometimes the 
nurse actually forced her from the room. She 
had insisted on having her discharged, but 
Dick liked her ministrations and the doctor set- 
tled the matter peremptorily. No one under- 
stood a mother’s feelings, she averred. 
And now she wanted to question Dick as 
to what Miss Grant had said all this while, but 
Mr. Eastman interposed. 
“ I am going to read him to sleep.” He had 
quite learned to assert himself through this 
time. “ He feels a little drowsy. No, the talk 
has not hurt him in the least.” 
Luckily she was summoned to the parlor by 
a call. 
Helen wended her way home in a thought- 
ful mood. She had listened to Dick’s confes- 
sion, and she was glad to find so much latent 
manliness in him. What a curious experience 
her year had been! Different from any ideal 
she had formed. Had she done what was best 
and wisest? Oh! was not life full of mistakes, 
of dropped stitches that one had to go back and 
gather up? She had not influenced the girls 
and boys as she had hoped. Yet how could 
she tell? Influence was far-reaching, like the 
plants whose roots may run a long way in the 
ground and then reappear. 
There was another prayer said for Richard 
Eastman on Sunday. Tuesday morning the 
ambulance was to come for him. 
Monday Helen went to tea at the Goulds\ 
Their garden was a perfect sight of bloom and 
beauty, their strawberries still luscious, and the 
choicest of raspberries, while the biscuit and 
pot cheese were perfection. 
The course of lectures had somehow fallen 
through the past winter, but they were only in 
abeyance. Mr. Hildreth had made arrange- 
ments for them to begin quite early the ensuing 
season. 
“ We’re so glad there’s to be no change with 
you, Miss Grant,” said Miss Mary. “ And 
you are to have a talk about girls’ college life. 
Why, I told Mr. Hildreth when he first spoke 
to me that folks would call me a crazy old loon 
to get up and speak in public. But after he 
had gone over the ground and told how much 
 
people were interested in the old things, not 
only old furniture and candlesticks and and- 
irons, but the way people lived and were 
educated and all that, and sent me some maga- 
zines where two different old people had writ- 
ten out reminiscences — isn't that what they 
call it — why, I thought I could tell quite as in- 
teresting things myself. So I really did con- 
sent, if I’m alive and well.” 
“ And I for one shall be among the de- 
lighted part of the audience,” Helen said in a 
joyous, enthusiastic voice. 
“ Everybody is counting so on next year — 
not that exactly, but your return and the open- 
ing of school. I said to Mr. Underwood, 
‘ You don’t know. She may have a lover 
stowed away somewhere, and be married about 
holiday times.’ ” 
“ No, I haven’t any lover,” and she laughed 
gayly. “ And I’ve promised for the whole 
year.” 
“ And what do you suppose he replied ? 
That they were going to find you a lover here 
and settle you at Westfield for life.” 
She blushed then, though she could not have 
told why. But she had the longing of 
youth to be well liked and was glad in her 
heart. 
Then there were the Deans, where the chil- 
dren hung about her and bewailed the fact of 
her departure. 
“ For we have had such nice walks and 
talks,’ said Lois. “ And you make things so 
delightful in school that I am just longing to 
get up to your class.” 
“ But Miss Jaynes is very interesting.” 
“ Yes,” rather lingeringly. “ And I do 
mean to teach school if I ever can learn 
enough. I think it is the most splendid thing.” 
Helen smiled encouragingly. She could re- 
call her girl’s dream of teaching, then because 
she loved study, later for the great influence 
she was to wield. Would she ever attain to all 
her dreams, or settle to Miss Parker’s level, 
being merely an excellent, unenthusiastic 
teacher ? 
But she did very much enjoy the tea-drink- 
ing at the Millards’. The artist daughter was 
home on a vacation and had brought a fresh- 
ness, and the talk of the great city, of pictures 
 
and books, of the remarkable works in the 
museum, of exhibitions here and there. 
“ I don’t aim at being anything wonderful, 
you must know,” she said with a light-hearted 
