completed his theological course in the seminary, and there were
other plans on foot, known as yet to my parents alone, which made the
engagement of another tutor inexpedient.
It did not seem odd to us then, but I wonder now over the routine laid
down by our father, and followed steadily by us during the next winter
and summer. A room in the second story was fitted up as a “study” for
the two girls. Each had her desk and her corner. Thither we repaired at
9 o’clock A.M. for five days of the week, and sat us down to work. When
problem, French exercise, history, and rhetoric lessons were prepared,
we gravely and dutifully recited them to each other; wrote French
exercises as carefully as if Mr. Howison’s eye were to scan them; and
each corrected that of her fellow to the best of her ability. We read
history and essays upon divers topics aloud, and discussed them freely.
The course of study was marked out for us by our beloved ex-tutor, who
wrote to us from time to time, in the midst of other and engrossing
cares, in proof of continued remembrance and interest in his whilom
pupils.
We girls wrought faithfully and happily until one o’clock at our
lessons. The rest of the day was our own, except afternoon hours which
were passed with our mother, and in occupations directed by her. She
had inherited from her mother taste and talent for dainty needlework,
and, as all sewing was done by hand, her hands were always full,
although her own maid was an expert seamstress. The Virginian matron of
antebellum days never wielded broom or duster. She did not make beds
or stand at wash-tub or ironing-table. Yet she was as busy in her line
of housewifely duty as her “Yankee” sister.
Provisions were bought by the large quantity, and kept in the spacious
store-room, which was an important section of the dwelling. Every
morning the cook was summoned as soon as breakfast was fairly over,
appearing with a big wooden tray under her elbow, sundry empty
“buckets” slung upon her arm, and often a pail on her head, carried
there because every other available portion of her person was occupied.
The two went together to the store-room, and materials for the daily
food of white and black households were measured into the various
vessels. The notable housewife knew to a fraction how much of the raw
products went to the composition of each dish she ordered. So much
flour was required for a loaf of rolls, and so much for a dozen beaten
biscuits; a stated quantity of butter was for cake or pudding; sugar
was measured for the kitchen-table and for that at which the mistress
would sit with her guests. Molasses was poured into one bucket, lard
measured by the great spoonful into another; “bacon-middling” was cut
off by the chunk for cooking with vegetables and for the servants’
eating; hams and shoulders were laid aside from the supply in the
smoke-house, to which the pair presently repaired. Dried fruits
in the winter, spices, vinegar—the scores of minor condiments and
flavoring that were brought into daily use in the lavish provision
for appetites accustomed to the fat of the land—were “given out” as
scrupulously as staples. If wine or brandy were to be used in sauces,
the mistress would supply them later. It was not right, according to
her code, to put temptation of that sort in the way of her dependants.
It was certainly unsafe. Few colored women drank. I do not now recall
a solitary instance of that kind in all my experience with, and
observation of negro servants, before or after the war. I wish I could
say the same for Scotch, Irish, and German cooks whom I have employed
during a half-century of active housewifery.
Negro men were notoriously weak in that direction. The most honest
could not resist the sight and smell of liquor. The failing would
seem to be racial. It is an established fact that when the solid
reconstructed South “went dry” in certain elections, it was in the hope
of keeping ardent spirits out of the way of the negroes.
To return to our housekeeper of the mid-nineteenth century: The second
stage in the daily round appointed to her by custom and necessity was
to superintend the washing of breakfast china, glass, and silver. In
seven cases out of ten she did the work herself, or deputed it to her
daughters. One of my earliest recollections is of standing by my mother
as she washed the breakfast “things,” and allowed me to polish the
teaspoons with a tiny towel just the right size for my baby hands.
Her own hands were very beautiful, as were her feet. To preserve
her taper fingers from the hot water in which silver and glass were
washed, she wore gloves, cutting off the tips of the fingers. The
proper handling of “fragiles” was a fine art, and few colored servants
arose to the right practice of it. I have in my memory the picture
of one stately gentlewoman, serene of face and dignified of speech,
who retained her seat at the table when the rest of us had finished
breakfast. To her, then, in dramatic parlance, the butler, arrayed
in long, white apron, sleeves rolled to the elbow, bearing a pail
of cedar-wood with bright brass hoops, three-quarters full of hot
water. This he set down upon a small table brought into the room for
the purpose, and proceeded to wash plates, cups, glass, silver, etc.,
collected from the board at which madam still presided, a bit of fancy
knitting or crocheting in hand, which did not withdraw her eyes from
vigilant attention to his movements.
Like surveillance was exercised over each branch of housework. Every
part of the establishment was visited by the mistress before she sat
down to the sewing, which was her own especial task. Her daughters were
instructed in the intricacies of backstitch, fell-seams, overcasting,
hemstitching, herringbone, button-holes, rolled and flat hems, by
the time they let down their frocks and put up their hair. The girl
who had not made a set of chemises for herself before she reached
her fourteenth birthday was accounted slow to learn what became a
gentlewoman who expected to have a home of her own to manage some
day. Until I was ten years old I knit my own stockings of fine,
white cotton, soft as wool. Gentlemen of the old school refused to
wear socks and stockings bought over a counter. In winter they had
woollen, in summer cotton foot-gear, home-knit by wives or aunts or
daughters. We embroidered our chemise bands and the ruffles of skirts,
the undersleeves that came in with “Oriental sleeves,” and the broad
collars that accompanied them.
Reading aloud more often went with the sewing-circle found in every
home, than gossip. My father set his fine, strong face like a flint
against neighborhood scandal and tittle-tattle. “‘They say’ is next
door to a lie,” was one of the sententious sayings that silenced
anecdotes dealing with village characters and doings. A more effectual
quietus was: “Who says that? Never repeat a tale without giving the
author’s name. That is the only honorable thing to do.”
I do not know that the exclusion of chit-chat of our friends drove
us to books for entertainment, when miles of seams and gussets and
overcasting lay between us and springtime with its outdoor amusements
and occupations. I do say that we did not pine for evening “functions,”
for luncheons and matinées, when we had plenty of books to read aloud
and congenial companions with whom to discuss what we read. Once a
week we had a singing-class, which met around our dining-table. My
father led this, giving the key with his tuning-fork, and now and then
accompanying with his flute a hymn in which his tenor was not needed.
Have I ever spoken of the singular fact that he had “no ear for music,”
yet sang tunefully and with absolute accuracy, with the notes before
him? He could not carry the simplest air without the music-book. It was
a clear case of a lack of co-ordination between ear and brain. He was
passionately fond of music, and sang well in spite of it, playing the
flute correctly and with taste—always by note. Take away the printed or
written page, and he was all at sea.
Those songful evenings were the one dissipation of the week. A
singing-master, the leader of a Richmond choir, had had a school at
the Court House the winter before, and The Boston Academy was in
every house in the village. I could run glibly over the names of the
regular attendants on the Tuesday evenings devoted to our musicale.
George Moody, my father’s good-looking ward, now seventeen, and already
in love up to his ears with Effie D., my especial crony, who was a
month my junior; Thaddeus Ivey, a big blond of the true Saxon type,
my father’s partner, and engaged to be married to a pretty Lynchburg
girl; James Ivey, a clerk in the employ of Hawes & Ivey—nice and quiet
and gentlemanly, and in love with nobody that we knew of—these were
the bassos. Once in a while, “Cousin Joe,” who was busily engaged in
a seven years’ courtship of a fair villager, Effie’s sister, joined us
and bore our souls and voices aloft with the sonorous “brum! brum!”
of a voice at once rich and well-trained. There were five sopranos—we
called it “the treble” then—and two women sang “the second treble.” One
weak-voiced neighbor helped my father out with the tenor. Until a year
or two before the singing-master invaded the country, women sang tenor,
and the alto was known as “counter.”
The twentieth century has not quite repudiated the tunes we delighted
in on those winter nights, when
    “The fire, with hickory logs supplied,
     Went roaring up the chimney wide,”
and we lined both sides of the long table, lighted by tall sperm-oil
lamps, and bent seriously happy faces over The Boston Academy,
singing with the spirit and, to the best of our ability, with the
understanding—“Lanesboro’” and “Cambridge” and “Hebron” and “Boyleston”
and “Zion,” and learning, with puckered brows and steadfast eyes glued
to the notes, such new tunes as “Yarmouth,” “Anvern,” and “Zerah.”
“Sing at it!” my father would command in heartsome tones, from his
stand at the top of the double line. “You will never learn it if you do
not make the first trial.”
I arose to my feet the other day with the rest of the congregation of a
fashionable church for a hymn which “everybody” was enjoined from the
pulpit to “sing.”
When the choir burst forth with
    “Triumphant Zion! Lift thy head!”
I dropped my head upon my hands and sobbed. Were the words ever sung to
any other tune than “Anvern,” I wonder?
In the interval of singing we chatted, laughed, and were happy. How
proud all of us girls were, on one stormy night when the gathering was
smaller than usual, and good-looking George—coloring to his ears, but
resolute—sang the bass solo in the fourth line of “Cambridge”:
    “Resound their Maker’s praise!”
The rest caught the words from his tongue and carried the tune to a
conclusion.
We sang until ten o’clock; then apples, nuts, and cakes were brought
in, and sometimes sweet cider. An hour later we had the house to
ourselves, and knelt for evening prayers about the fire before going to
bed.
It was an easy-going existence, that of the well-to-do Virginia
countryman of that date. If there were already elements at work below
the surface that were to heave the fair level into smoking ruin, the
rank and file of the men who made, and who obeyed the laws, did not
suspect it.
Grumblers there were, and political debates that ran high and hot, but
the Commonwealth that had supplied the United States with statesmen and
leaders since the Constitution was framed, had no fear of a dissolution
of what was, to the apprehension of those now at the helm, the natural
order of things.
XII
ELECTION DAY AND A DEMOCRATIC BARBECUE
THE time of the singing of birds and the departure of winter came
suddenly that year. Hyacinths were aglow in my mother’s front yard
early in February, and the orchards were aflame with “the fiery
blossoms of the peach.” The earth awoke from sleep with a bound, and
human creatures thrilled, as at the presage of great events.
It was the year of the presidential election and a campaign of
extraordinary importance. My father talked to me of what invested it
with this importance as we walked together down the street one morning
when the smell of open flowers and budding foliage was sweet in our
nostrils.
A Democratic barbecue was to be held in a field on the outskirts of the
village just beyond “Jordan’s Creek.” The stream took its name from the
man whose plantation bounded it on the west. The widening and deepening
into a pool at the foot of his garden made it memorable in the Baptist
Church.
I do not believe there was a negro communicant in any other
denomination throughout the length of the county. And their favorite
baptizing-place was “Jordan’s Creek.” I never knew why, until my
mother’s maid—a bright mulatto, with a smart cross of Indian blood in
her veins—“got through,” after mighty strivings on her part, and on the
part of the faithful of her own class and complexion, and confided to
me her complacency in the thought that she was now safe for time and
eternity.
“For, you see, John the Babtis’, he babtized in the River Jerdan, and
Brother Watkins, he babtized me in the Creek Jerdan. I s’pose they must
be some kin to one another?”
My father laughed and then sighed over the story, when I told it as we
set out on our walk. The religious beliefs and superstitions of the
colored servants were respected by their owners to a degree those who
know little of the system as it prevailed at that time, find it hard to
believe. From babyhood we were taught never to speak disrespectfully
of the Baptists, or of the vagaries that passed with the negroes for
revealed truth. They had a right to their creeds as truly as we had to
ours.
This younger generation is also incredulous with respect to another
fact connected with our domestic relations. Children were trained in
respectful speech to elderly servants—indeed, to all who were grown men
and women. My mother made me apologize once to this same maid—Mary Anne
by name—for telling her to “Hush her mouth!” the old Virginian form of
“Hold your tongue!”
The blesséd woman explained the cause of her reproof when the maid was
out of hearing:
“The expression is unladylike and coarse. Then, again, it is
mean—despicably mean!—to be saucy to one who has no right to answer
in the same way. If you must be sharp in your talk, quarrel with your
equals, not with servants, who cannot meet you on your own ground.”
The admonition has stuck fast in my mind to this day.
By the time we turned the corner in the direction of Jordan’s Creek,
my father and I were deep in politics. He was the stanchest of Whigs,
and the ancient and honorable party had for leader, in this year’s
fight, one whom my instructor held to be the wisest statesman and
purest patriot in the land. The ticket, “Clay and Frelinghuysen,” was a
beloved household word with us; talk of the tariff, protection and the
national debt, which Henry Clay’s policy would wipe out, and forever,
if opportunity were granted to him, ran as glibly from our childish
tongues as dissertations upon the Catholic bill and parliamentary
action thereupon dropped from the lips of the Brontë boy and girls.
There was not a shadow of doubt in our minds as to the result of the
November fight.
“It seems a pity”—I observed, as we looked across the creek down into
the distant meadow, where men and boys were moving to and fro, and
smoke was rising from fires that had been kindled overnight—“that the
Democrats should go to so much expense and trouble only to be defeated
at last.”
“They may not be so sure as you are that they are working for nothing,”
answered my father, smiling good-humoredly. “They have had some
victories to boast of in the past.”
“Yes!” I assented, reluctantly. “As, for instance, when Colonel Hopkins
was sent to the Legislature! Father, I wish you had agreed to go when
they begged you to let them elect you!”
The smile was now a laugh.
“To nominate me, you mean. A very different matter from election, my
daughter. Not that I cared for either. If I may be instrumental in the
hands of Providence in helping to put the right man into the right
place, my political ambitions will be satisfied.”
“I do hope that Powhatan will go for Clay!” ejaculated I, fervently.
“And I think it an outrage that the Richmond voters cannot come up to
the help of the right, at the presidential election.”
“The law holds that the real strength of the several states would not
be properly represented if this were allowed,” was the reply.
I saw the justice of the law later in life. Then it was oppressive, to
my imagination.
That most doubtful blessing of enlightened freemen—universal
suffrage—had not as yet been thrust upon the voters of the United
States. In Virginia, the man who held the franchise must not only be
“free, white, and twenty-one,” but he must be a land-owner to the
amount of at least twenty-five dollars. Any free white of the masculine
gender owning twenty-five dollars’ worth of real estate in any county
had a vote there. If he owned lands of like value in ten counties,
he might deposit a vote in each of them, if he could reach them all
between sunrise and sunset on Election Day. It was esteemed a duty by
the Richmond voter—the city being overwhelmingly Whig—to distribute his
influence among doubtful counties in which he was a property-holder.
He held and believed for certain that he had a right to protect his
interests wherever they might lie.
Powhatan was a doubtful factor in the addition of election returns.
Witness the election to the Legislature at different periods of such
Democrats as Major Jacob Michaux—from a James River plantation held by
his grandfather by a royal grant since the Huguenots sought refuge in
Virginia from French persecutors—and of the Colonel Hopkins whom I had
named. This last was personally popular, a man of pleasing address and
fair oratorical powers, and represented an influential neighborhood
in the centre of the county. A most worthy gentleman, as I now know.
Then I classed him with Jesuits and tyrants. I had overheard a sanguine
Democrat declare in the heat of political argument that “Henry L.
Hopkins would be President of the United States some day.” To which my
father retorted, “When that day comes I shall cross the ocean and swear
allegiance to Queen Victoria.”
When I repeated the direful threat to my mother, she laughed and bade
me give myself no uneasiness on the subject, as nothing was more
unlikely than that Colonel Hopkins would ever go to the White House.
Nevertheless, I always associated that amiable and courtly gentleman
with our probable expatriation.
Election Day was ever an event of moment with us children. From
the time when I was tall enough to peep over the vine-draped
garden-fence—until I was reckoned too big to stand and stare in so
public a place, and was allowed to join the seniors who watched the
street from behind the blinds and between the sprays of the climbing
roses shading the front windows—it was my delight to inspect and
pronounce upon the groups that filled the highway all day long.
Children are violent partisans, and we separated the sheep from the
goats—id est, the Whigs from the Democrats—as soon as the horsemen
became visible through the floating yellow dust of the roads running
from each end of the street back into the country. One neighborhood
in the lower end of the county, bordering upon Chesterfield, was
familiarly known as the “Yellow Jacket region.” It took its name,
according to popular belief, from the butternut and nankeen stuffs that
were worn by men and women. The term had a sinister meaning to us,
although it was sufficiently explained by the costume of the voters,
who seldom appeared at the Court House in force except upon Election
Day. They arrived early in the forenoon—a straggling procession of
sad-faced citizens, or so we fancied—saying little to one another, and
looking neither to the left nor the right as their sorrel nags paced up
the middle of the wide, irregularly built street. I did not understand
then, nor do I now, their preference for sorrel horses. Certain it is
that there were four of that depressing hue to one black, bay, or gray.
So badly groomed were the poor beasts, and so baggy were the nankeen
trousers of the men who bestrode them, that a second look was needed
to determine where the rider ended and the steed began. We noted, with
disdainful glee, that the Yellow Jacket folk turned the corner of the
crossway flanking our garden, and so around the back of the public
square enclosing Court House, clerk’s office, and jail. There they
tethered the sorry beasts to the fence, shook down a peck or so of oats
from bags they had fastened behind their saddles, and shambled into the
square to be lost in the gathering crowd.
As they rode through the village, ill-mannered boys chanted:
    “Democrats—
     They eat rats!
     But Whigs
     Eat pigs!”
Bacon being a product for which the state was famed, the distinction
was invidious to the last degree. My mother never let us take up the
scandalous doggerel. She said it was vulgar, untrue, and unkind. It was
not her fault that each of us had the private belief that there was a
spice of truth in it.
When we saw a smart tilbury, drawn by a pair of glossy horses, stop
before the “Bell Tavern” opposite our house, the occupants spring to
the ground and leave the equipage to the hostlers—who rushed from the
stables at sound of the clanging bell pulled by the landlord as soon as
he caught sight of the carriage—we said in unison:
“They are Whigs!”
We were as positive as to the politics of the men who rode blooded
hunters and wore broadcloth and tall, shining hats. The Yellow Jacket
head-gear was drab in color, uncertain in shape.
It seemed monstrous to our intolerant youth that “poor white folksy”
men should have an equal right with gentlemen, born and bred, in
deciding who should represent the county in the Legislature and the
district in Congress.
The crowning excitement of the occasion was reserved for the afternoon.
As early as three o’clock I was used to see my father come out of the
door of his counting-room over the way, watch in hand, and look down
the Richmond road. Presently he would be joined there by one, two, or
three others, and they compared timepieces, looking up at the westering
sun, their faces graver and gestures more energetic as the minutes sped
by. The junta of women sympathizers behind the vine-curtains began to
speculate as to the possibility of accident to man, beast, or carriage,
and we children inquired, anxiously, “What would happen if the Richmond
voters did not come, after all?”
“No fear of that!” we were assured, our mother adding, with modest
pride, “Your father has attended to the matter.”
They always came. Generally the cloud of distant dust, looming
high and fast upon the wooded horizon, was the first signal of the
reinforcements for the Whig party. Through this we soon made out a
train of ten or twelve carriages, and perhaps as many horsemen—a
triumphal cortége that rolled and caracoled up the street amid the
cheers of expectant fellow-voters and of impartial urchins, glad of any
chance to hurrah for anybody. The most important figure to me in the
scene was my father, as with feigned composure he walked slowly to the
head of the front steps, and lifted his hat in courteous acknowledgment
of the hands and hats waved to him from carriage and saddle-bow. If I
thought of Alexander, Napoleon, and Washington, I am not ashamed to
recollect it now.
That child has been defrauded who has not had a hero in his own home.
I was at no loss to know who mine was, on this bland spring morning, as
my father and I leaned on a fence on the hither side of the creek and
watched the proceedings of the cooks and managers about the al fresco
kitchen.
“Too many cooks spoil the dinner!” quoth I, as negroes bustled from
fire to fire, and white men yelled their orders and counter-orders.
“Not that it matters much what kind of victuals are served at a
Democratic barbecue, so long as there is plenty to drink.”
“Easy, easy, daughter!” smiled my auditor. “There are good men and true
in the other party. We are in danger of forgetting that.”
“None as good and great as Mr. Clay, father?”
He raised his hat slightly and involuntarily. “I do not think he has
his equal as man and pure patriot in this, or any other country. God
defend the right!”
“You are not afraid lest Polk”—drawling the monosyllable in
derision—“will beat him, father?”
The smile was a laugh—happily confident.
“Hardly! I have more faith in human nature and in the common-sense of
the American people than to think that they will pass over glorious
Harry of the West, and forget his distinguished services to the nation,
to set in the presidential chair an obscure demagogue who has done
nothing. Wouldn’t you like to go down there and see half an ox roasted,
and a whole sheep?”
We crossed the stream upon a shaking plank laid from bank to bank, and
strolled down the slope to the scene of operations. An immense kettle
was swung over a fire of logs that were so many living coals. The smell
of Brunswick stew had been wafted to us while we leaned on the fence. A
young man, who had the reputation of being an epicure, to the best of
his knowledge and ability, superintended the manufacture of the famous
delicacy.
“Two dozen chickens went into it!” he assured us. “They wanted to make
me think it couldn’t be made without green corn and fresh tomatoes.
I knew a trick worth two of that. I have worked it before with dried
tomatoes and dried sweet corn soaked overnight.”
He smacked his lips and winked fatuously.
“I’ve great confidence in your culinary skill,” was the good-natured
rejoinder.
I recollected that I had heard my father say of this very youth:
“I am never hard upon a fellow who is a fool because he can’t help it!”
But I wondered at his gentleness when the epicure prattled on:
“Yes, sir! a stew like this is fit for Democrats to eat. I wouldn’t
give a Whig so much as a smell of the pot!”
“You ought to have a tighter lid, then,” with the same good-humored
intonation, and we passed on to see the roasts. Shallow pits, six
or seven feet long and four feet wide, were half filled with clear
coals of hard hickory billets. Iron bars were laid across these,
gridiron-like, and half-bullocks and whole sheep were cooking over the
scarlet embers. There were six pits, each with its roast. The spot for
the speakers’ rostrum and the seats of the audience was well-selected.
A deep spring welled up in a grove of maples. The fallen red blossoms
carpeted the ground, and the young leaves supplied grateful shade.
The meadows sloped gradually toward the spring; rude benches of what
we called “puncheon logs”—that is, the trunks of trees hewed in half,
and the flat sides laid uppermost—were ranged in the form of an
amphitheatre.
“You have a fine day for the meeting,” observed my father to the master
of ceremonies, a planter from the Genito neighborhood, who greeted the
visitors cordially.
“Yes, sir! The Lord is on our side, and no mistake!” returned the
other, emphatically. “Don’t you see that yourself, Mr. Hawes!”
“I should not venture to base my faith upon the weather,” his eyes
twinkling while he affected gravity, “for we read that He sends His
rain and sunshine upon the evil and the good. Good-morning! I hope the
affair will be as pleasant as the day.”
Our father took his family into confidence more freely than any other
man I ever knew. We were taught not to prattle to outsiders of what
was said and done at home. At ten years of age I was used to hearing
affairs of personal and business moment canvassed by my parents and
my father’s partner, who had been an inmate of our house from his
eighteenth year—intensely interested to the utmost of my comprehension
and drawing my own conclusions privately, yet understanding all the
while that whatever I heard and thought was not to be spoken of to
schoolmate or visitor.
It was not unusual for my father to confide to me in our early morning
rides—for he was my riding-master—some scheme he was considering
pertaining to church, school, or purchase, talking of it as to an equal
in age and intelligence. I hearkened eagerly, and was flattered and
honored by the distinction thus conferred. He never charged me not to
divulge what was committed to me. Once or twice he had added, “I know
I am safe in telling you this.” After which the thumb-screw could not
have extracted a syllable of the communication from me.
It was during one of these morning rides that he unfolded a
plan suggested, as he told me, by our visit to the Democratic
barbecue-ground some weeks before.
We had to rise betimes to secure a ride of tolerable length before the
warmth of the spring and summer days made the exercise fatiguing and
unpleasant. A glass of milk and a biscuit were brought to me while I
was dressing in the gray dawn, and I would join my escort at the front
gate, where stood the hostler with both horses, while the east was yet
but faintly colored by the unseen sun.
We were pacing quietly along a plantation road five miles from the
Court House, and I was dreamily enjoying the fresh taste of the
dew-laden air upon my lips, and inhaling the scent of the wild thyme
and sheep-mint, bruised by the horses’ hoofs, when my companion, who, I
had seen, had been in a brown study for the last mile, began with:
“I have been thinking—” The sure prelude to something worth hearing, or
so I believed then.
A Whig rally was meditated. He had consulted with three of his friends
as to the scheme born of his brain, and there would be a meeting of
perhaps a dozen leading men of the party in his counting-room that
afternoon. The affair was not to be spoken of until date and details
were settled. My heart swelled with pride in him, and in myself as
his chosen confidante, as he went on. The recollection of the scenes
succeeding the barbecue was fresh in our minds, and the memory
sharpened the contrast between the methods of the rival parties.
I was brimful of excitement when I got home, and the various novelties
of the impending event in the history of county politics and village
life were the staple of neighborhood talk for the weeks dividing that
morning ride from the mid-May day of the “rally.”
That was what they called it, for it was not to be a barbecue, although
a collation would be served in the grounds surrounding the Grove Hotel,
situated in the centre of the hamlet, and separated from the public
square by one street. The meeting and the speaking would be in the
grove at the rear of the Court House. Seats were to be arranged among
the trees. It was at my father’s instance and his expense that the
benches would be covered with white cotton cloth—“muslin,” in Northern
parlance. This was in special compliment to the “ladies who, it was
hoped, would compose a great part of the audience.”
This was the chiefest innovation of all that set tongues to wagging
in three counties. The wives and mothers and daughters of voters were
cordially invited by placards strewed broadcast through the length
and breadth of Powhatan. The like had never been heard of within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant. It was universally felt that the step
practically guaranteed the county for Clay and Frelinghuysen.
XIII
A WHIG RALLY AND MUSTER DAY
THE day dawned heavenly fair, and waxed gloriously bright by the time
the preparations for the reception of the guests were completed.
The dust had been laid by an all-day rain forty-eight hours before.
Every blade of grass and the leaves, which rustled joyously overhead,
shone as if newly varnished. At ten o’clock all the sitting-space was
occupied, three-fourths of the assembly being of the fairer sex. Half
an hour later there was not standing-room within the sound of the
orators’ voices. A better-dressed, better-mannered crowd never graced
a political “occasion.” All were in summer gala attire, and all were
seated without confusion. My father, as chairman of the committee of
arrangements, had provided for every stage of the proceeding. It was by
a motion, made by him and carried by acclamation, that Captain Miller,
“a citizen of credit and renown,” was called to preside.
As if it had happened last week, I can, in fancy, see each feature
of this, the most stupendous function that had ever entered my young
life. I suppose there may have been five hundred people present. I
would have said, unhesitatingly, “five thousand,” if asked to make
the computation. I wore, for the first time, a sheer lawn frock—the
longest I had ever had, but, as my mother explained to the village
dressmaker—Miss Judy Cardozo—“Virginia is growing so fast, we would
better have it rather long to begin with.” I secretly rejoiced
in the sweep of the full skirt down to my heels, as giving me a
young-ladylike appearance. “Thad” Ivey, always kind to me, and not
less jolly because he was soon to be a married man, meeting me on the
way up the street, declared that I had “really a ball-room air.” My
hair was “done” in two braids and tied with white ribbon figured with
pale-purple and green flowers. Sprigs of the same color decorated the
white ground of my lawn. I carried a white fan, and I sat, with great
delight, between my mother and Cousin Mary.
                            “‘And bright
    The sun shone o’er fair women and brave men,’”
murmured a gallant Whig to the row of women behind us.
“Isn’t that strange!” whispered I to Cousin Mary; “those lines have
been running in my mind ever since we came.”
Not strange, as I now know. Everybody read and quoted “Childe Harold”
at that period, and I may add, took liberties with the text of favorite
poems to suit them to the occasion.
When the round of applause that greeted the appearance of Captain
Miller upon the platform subsided, everything grew suddenly so still
that I heard the leaves rustling over our heads. His was not an
imposing presence, but he had a stainless reputation as a legislator
and a Whig, and was highly respected as a man. He began in exactly
these words:
“Ladies and gentlemen—fellow-citizens, all!—it behooves us, always
and everywhere, before entering upon the prosecution of any important
enterprise, to invoke the presence and blessing of Almighty God. We
will, therefore, be now led in prayer by the Reverend Mr. Carus.”
My uncle-in-law “offered” a tedious petition, too long-winded to
please the average politician perhaps, but it was generally felt that
a younger man and newer resident could not have been called upon
without incivility verging upon disrespect to a venerable citizen. The
invocation over, the presiding officer announced that “the Whigs, in
obedience to the spirit of fair play to all, and injustice to none,
that had ever characterized the party, would to-day grant to their
honored opponents, the Democrats, the opportunity of replying publicly
to the arguments advanced in the addresses of those representing
the principles in the interest of which the present assembly had
been convened. The first speaker of the day would be the Hon. Holden
Rhodes, of Richmond. The second would be one almost as well known
to the citizens of county and state—the Hon. John Winston Jones, of
Chesterfield. The Whigs reserved to themselves the last and closing
address of the day by the Hon. Watkins Leigh, of Richmond.”
Nothing could be fairer and more courteous, it seemed to me. In the
hum of approval that rippled through the assembly it was apparent that
others held the like sentiment. Likewise, that the “Honorable Chairman”
had scored another point for the magnanimous Whigs. But then—as I
whispered to my indulgent neighbor on the left—they could afford to
surrender an advantage or two to the party they were going to whip out
of existence.
Holden Rhodes was an eminent lawyer, and his speech was a trifle too
professional in sustained and unoratorical argument for my taste and
mental reach. I recall it chiefly because of a comical interruption
that enlivened the hour-long exposition of party creeds.
I have drawn in my book, Judith, a full-length portrait of one of the
men of marked individuality who made Powhatan celebrated in the history
of a state remarkable in every period for strongly defined public
characters. In Judith I named this man “Captain Macon.” In real life
he was Capt. John Cocke, a scion of a good old family, a planter of
abundant means, and the father of sons who were already beginning to
take the place in the public eye he had held for fifty years. He was
tall and gaunt, his once lofty head slightly bowed by years and—it was
hinted—by high living. He had been handsome, and his glance was still
piercing, his bearing distinguished. I ever cherished, as I might value
a rare antique, the incident of his introduction to that stalwart dame,
my New England grandmother, who had now been a member of our family for
three years.
We were on our way home after service at Fine Creek, and the carriage
had stopped at a wayside spring to water the horses. Captain Cocke
stood by the spring, his bridle rein thrown over his arm while his
horse stooped to the “branch” flowing across the highway. Expecting to
see my mother in the carriage, he took off his hat and approached the
window.
“This is my mother, Captain,” said my father, raising his voice
slightly, as he then named the new-comer to her deaf ears.
The old cavalier bowed low, his hand upon his heart: “Madam, I am the
friend of your son. I can say nothing more to a mother!”
The fine courtesy, the graceful deference to age, the instant
adaptation of manner and words to the circumstances, have set the
episode aside in my heart as a gem of its kind.
He wore on that Sunday, and he wore on every other day the year
around, a scarlet hunting-coat. I wonder if there were more eccentrics
in Virginia in that generation than are to be met with there—or
anywhere else—nowadays? Certain it is that nobody thought of inquiring
why Captain Cocke, whose ancestors had served under Washington and
Lafayette in the war for freedom, chose to sport the British livery.
We had ceased to remark upon it by the time I write of. When strangers
expressed wonderment at the queer garb, we had a resentful impression
of officiousness.
Mr. Rhodes, with the rest of his party, was thoroughly dissatisfied
with the policy (or want of policy) of John Tyler, who had been called
to the presidential chair by the untimely death of Gen. W. H. Harrison.
In the progress of his review of national affairs, he came to this name
when he had spoken half an hour or so.
Whereupon uprose the majestic figure clad in scarlet, from his seat
a few feet away from the platform. The Captain straightened his bent
shoulders and lifted lean arms and quivering fingers toward heaven. The
red tan of his weather-beaten cheeks was a dusky crimson.
“The Lord have mercy upon the nation!” he cried, his voice solemn with
wrath, and sonorous with the potency of the mint-juleps for which “The
Bell” was noted. “Fellow-citizens! I always cry to High Heaven for
mercy upon this country when John Tyler’s name is mentioned! Amen and
amen!”
He had a hearty round of applause mingled with echoes of his “amens”
and much good-humored laughter. They all knew and loved the Captain.
I felt the blood rush to my face, and I saw others glance around
reprovingly when a city girl who sat behind me, and carried on a
whispered flirtation with a fopling at her side during Mr. Rhodes’s
speech, drawled:
“What voice from the tombs is that?”
Mrs. James Saunders, née Mary Cocke, was my mother’s right-hand
neighbor. With perfect temper and an agreeable smile, she looked over
her shoulder into the babyish face of the cockney guest—
“That is my Uncle John,” she uttered, courteously.
Whereat all within hearing smiled, and the young woman had the grace to
blush.
Mr. Rhodes was speaking again, and the audience was respectfully
attentive. The orator made clever use of the Captain’s interruption.
The manner of it offended nobody. John Tyler was, perhaps, the most
unpopular man in the Union at that particular time. The Democrats
had no use for him, and he had disappointed his own party. When the
smoke and dust of political skirmishing cleared away, Virginians did
something like justice to his motives and his talents. Twenty years
thereafter, my early pre-possessions, engendered by the vituperative
eloquence of the Clay campaign, were corrected by a quiet remark made
by my father to a man who spoke slightingly of the ex-President:
“The man who chose the cabinet that served during Tyler’s
administration was neither fool nor traitor.”
John Winston Jones demolished the fair fabric Mr. Rhodes had spent so
much time and labor in constructing that I began to yawn before the
lively Democrat woke me up. I recollect that he was pungent and funny,
and that I was interested, despite his sacrilegious treatment of what I
regarded as sacred themes.
It was a telling point when he drew deliberately a wicked-looking
jack-knife from his breeches pocket, opened it as deliberately, and,
turning toward Mr. Rhodes, who sat at his left, said:
“If I were to plunge this into the bosom of my friend and respected
opponent (and I beg to assure him that I shall not hurt a hair of his
head, now or ever!), would I be regarded as his benefactor? Yet that is
what General Jackson did to the system of bank monopolies,” etc.
I did not follow him further. For a startled second I had really
thought we were to have a “scene.” I had heard that Democrats were
bloodthirsty by nature, and that sanguinary outbreaks attended
political demonstrations and cataracts of bad whiskey.
It goes without saying that the Hon. Watkins Leigh—a distinguished
member of the Richmond bar, famous for legal acumen and forensic
oratory—made quick and thorough work in the destruction of Mr. Jones’s
building, and sent the Whigs home with what I heard my mother describe
as “a good taste in their mouths.”
The orations were interspersed with “patriotic songs.” A quartette of
young men, picked out by the committee of arrangements, for their fine
voices and stanch Whiggery, stood on the platform and sang the body of
the ballads. The choruses were shouted, with more force and good-will
than tunefulness, by masculine voters of all ages and qualities of tone.
Doctor Henning, an able physician, and as eccentric in his way as
Captain Cocke in his, stood near my father, his back against a tree,
his mouth wide, and all the volume of sound he could pump from his
lungs pouring skyward in the refrain of
    “Get out of the way, you’re all unlucky;
     Clear the track for Old Kentucky!”—
when his eye fell upon a young man, who, having no more ear or voice
than the worthy Galen himself, contented himself with listening. As
the quartette began the next verse, the Doctor collared “Abe” Cardozo
(whom, by the way, he had assisted to bring into the world), and
actually shook him in the energy of his patriotism—
“Abraham James! why don’t you sing?”
“Me, Doctor?” stammered the young fellow, who probably had not heard
his middle name in ten years before—“I never sang a note in my life!”
“Then begin now!” commanded the Doctor, setting the example as the
chorus began anew.
How my father laughed! backing out of sight of the pair, and doubling
himself up in the enjoyment of the scene, real bright tears rolling
down his cheeks. I heard him rehearse the incident twenty times
in after-years, and always with keen delight. For the Doctor was a
scholar and a dreamer, as well as a skilful practitioner, renowned for
his horticultural and ornithological successes, and so taciturn and
absent-minded that he seldom took part in general conversation. That he
should have been drawn out of his shell to the extent of roaring out
ungrammatical doggerel in a public assembly of his fellow-citizens,
was a powerful proof of the tremendous force of party enthusiasm. The
incongruity of the whole affair appealed to my father’s ever-active
sense of humor. He would wind up the story by asserting that “it would
have made Jeremiah chuckle if he had known both of the actors in the
by-play.”
One specimen of the ballads that flooded the land in the fateful 1844
will give some idea of the tenor of all:
    Tune: “Ole Dan Tucker”
    “The moon was shining silver bright, the stars with glory
           crowned the night,
     High on a limb that ‘same old Coon’ was singing to himself
           this tune:
    Chorus
    “Get out of the way, you’re all unlucky; clear the track
           for Ole Kentucky!
    “Now in a sad predicament the Lokies are for President;
     They have six horses in the pasture, and don’t know which
           can run the faster.
    “The Wagon-Horse from Pennsylvany, the Dutchmen think he’s
           the best of any;
     But he must drag in heavy stages his Federal notions and
           low wages.
    “They proudly bring upon the course an old and broken-down
           war-horse;
     They shout and sing: ‘Oh! rumpsey dumsey, Colonel Johnson
           killed Tecumsey!’
    “And here is Cass, though not a dunce, will run both sides
           of the track at once;
     To win the race will all things copy, be sometimes pig and
           sometimes puppy.
    “The fiery Southern horse, Calhoun, who hates a Fox and fears
           a Coon,
     To toe the scratch will not be able, for Matty keeps him in
           the stable.
    “And here is Matty, never idle, a tricky horse that slips his
           bridle;
     In forty-four we’ll show him soon the little Fox can’t fool
           the Coon.
    “The balky horse they call John Tyler, we’ll head him soon or
           burst his boiler;
     His cursed ‘grippe’ has seized us all, which Doctor Clay will
           cure next fall.
    “The people’s fav’rite, Henry Clay, is now the ‘fashion’ of the
           day;
     And let the track be dry or mucky, we’ll stake our pile on Ole
           Kentucky.
    “Get out of the way, he’s swift and lucky; clear the track for
           Ole Kentucky!”
(The chorus of each preceding verse is, “Get out of the way, you’re all
unlucky,” etc. The “Fox” is Martin Van Buren, or “Matty.” The “Coon” is
Clay. The “Wagon-Horse from Pennsylvany” is James Buchanan.)
Another ballad, sung that day under the trees at the back of the Court
House, began after this wise:
    “What has caused this great commotion
       Our ranks betray?
     It is the ball a-rolling on
       To clear the way
       For Harry Clay.
     And with him we’ll beat your Polk! Polk! Polk!
     And his motley crew of folk.
     O! with him we’ll beat your Polk.”
To my excited imagination it was simple fact, not a flight of fancy,
that Powhatan should be alluded to that day as “your historic county—a
mere wave in the vast Union—
    “That ever shall be
     Divided as billows, yet one as the sea.”
“A wave, fellow-citizens, that has caught the irresistible impulse of
wind and tide bearing us on to the most glorious victory America has
ever seen.”
Ah’s me! That was how both parties talked and felt with regard to the
Union seventeen years before the very name became odious to those who
had been ready to die in defence of it.
I cannot dismiss the subject of public functions in the “historic
county” without devoting a few pages to the annual Muster Day. It was
preceded by five days of “officers’ training.” The manœuvres of the
latter body were carried on in the public square, and, as one end of
our house overlooked this, no lessons were studied or recited between
the hours of 10 A.M. and 4 P.M. on those days. The sophisticated
twentieth-century youngling will smile contemptuously at hearing that,
up to this time, I had never heard a brass-band. But I knew all about
martial music. Already there was laid away in the fat portfolio nobody
except myself ever opened, a story in ten parts, in which the hero’s
voice was compared to “the thrilling strains of martial music.”
I boiled the tale down four years thereafter, and it was printed. It
had a career. But “that is another story.”
I used to sit with my “white work,” or a bit of knitting, in hand, at
that end window, looking across the side-street down upon the square,
watching the backing and filling, the prancing and the halting of the
eight “officers” drilled in military tactics by Colonel Hopkins, the
strains of the drum and fife in my ears, and dream out war-stories by
the dozen.
The thumping and the squealing of drum and fife set my pulses to
dancing as the finest orchestra has never made them leap since that day
when fancy was more real and earnest than what the bodily senses took
in.
By Saturday the officers had learned their lesson well enough to take
their respective stands before (and aft, as we shall see) the larger
body of free and independent American citizens who were not “muster
free,” hence who must study the noble art of war.
They came from every quarter of the county. The Fine Creek and Genito
