no rise to those coquetries with October known to our 
own summer. Yet, having said so much, I feel bound 
to add that our nine days in York, from the 2d to the 
12th of September, were more summer than autumn 
days, some wholly, some partly, with hours of sun- 
shine keeping the flowers bright which the rain kept 
fresh. If you walked fast in this sunshine you were 
quite hot, and sometimes in the rain you were uncom- 
fortably warm, or at least you were wet. If the morn- 
ings demanded a fire in the grate, the evenings were 
so clement that the lamp was sufficient, and the noons 
were very well with neither. 
The day of our arrival in York began bright at Shef- 
field, where there was a. man quarrelling so loudly and 
 
aimlessly in the station that we were glad to get away 
from him, as well as from the mountains of slag sur- 
rounding the iron metropolis. The train ran through 
a pass in these, and then we found ourselves in a plain 
country, and, though the day turned gray and misty, 
there seemed a sort of stored sunshine in the fields of 
wheat which the farmers were harvesting far and near. 
One has heard so much of the decay of the English 
agriculture that one sees what is apparently the con- 
trary with nothing less than astonishment. The acre- 
age of these wheat - fields was large, and the yield 
heavier than I could remember to have seen at home. 
Where the crop had been got in, much ploughing for 
the next year had been done already, and where the 
ploughing was finished the work of sowing by drill 
was going steadily forward, in the faith that such an 
unprecedented summer as was now passing would re- 
turn another year. At all these pleasant labors, of 
course, the rooks were helping, or at least bossing. 
ii 
We expected to stay certainly a week, and perhaps 
two weeks, in York, and our luck with railway hotels 
had been so smiling elsewhere that we had no other 
mind than to spend the time at the house into which 
we all but stepped from our train. But we had reck- 
oned without our host, as he was represented by one 
of a half-dozen alert young ladies in the office, who 
asked how long we expected to stay, and when we ex- 
pressed a general purpose of staying indefinitely, said 
that all her rooms were taken from the next Monday 
by people who had engaged them long before for the 
races. I did not choose to betray my ignorance to a 
 
woman, but I privately asked the head porter what 
races those were which were limiting our proposed so- 
journ, and I am now afraid he had some difficulty in 
keeping a head porter's conventional respect for a for- 
mal superior in answering that we had arrived on the 
eve of Doncaster Week. Then I said, " Oh yes," and 
affected the knowledge of Doncaster Week which I re- 
solved to acquire by staying somewhere in York till it 
was over. 
But as yet, that Friday afternoon, there was no hurry, 
and, instead of setting about a search for lodgings at 
once, we drove up into the town, as soon as we had tea, 
and visited York Minster while it was still the gray 
afternoon and not yet the gray evening. I thought the 
hour fortunate, and I do not see yet how we could have 
chosen a better hour out of the whole twenty-four, for 
the inside or the outside of the glorious fane, the grand- 
est and beautifulest in all England, as I felt then and 
I feel now. If I were put to the question and were 
forced to say in what its supreme grandeur and beauty 
lay, I should perhaps say in its most ample simplicity. 
N"o doubt it is full of detail, but I keep no sense of this 
from that mighty interior, with its tree-like, clustered 
pillars, and its measureless windows, like breadths of 
stained foliage in autumnal woodlands. You want the 
scale of nature for the Minster at York, and I can- 
not liken it to less than all-out-doors. Some cathedrals, 
like that of Wells, make you think of gardens; but 
York Minster will not be satisfied with less than an 
autumnal woodland, where the trees stand in clumps, 
with grassy levels about them, and with spacious open- 
ings to the sky, that let in the colored evening light. 
You could not get lost in it, for it was so free of 
all such architectural undergrowth as cumbers the per- 
spectives of some cathedrals; besides, the afternoon of 
  
our visit there were so many other Americans that you 
could easily have asked your way in your own dialect. 
We loitered over its lengths and breadths, and wondered 
at its windows, which were like the gates of sunrise 
and sunset for magnitude, and lingered in a sumptuous 
delay from going into the choir, delighting in the gray 
twilight which seemed to gather from the gray walls 
inward, when suddenly what seemed a metallic curtain 
was dropped with a clash and the simultaneous up- 
flashing of electric bulbs inside it, and we were shut 
out from the sight but not the sound of the service 
that began in the choir. We could not wholly regret 
the incident, for as we recalled the like operation of 
religion in churches of our Italian travel, we were re- 
minded how equally authoritative the Church of Eng- 
land and the Church of Rome were, and how little they 
adjust their ceremonial to the individual, how largely 
to the collective worshipper. You could come into the 
Minster of York as into the basilica of St. Mark at 
Venice for a silent prayer amid the religious influences 
of the place, and be conscious of your oneness with your 
Source, as if there were no other one ; but when the 
priesthood called you as one of many to your devotions, 
it was with the same imperative voice in both, and you 
must obey or be cut off from your chance. I suppose 
it is right ; but somehow the down - clashing of that 
screen of the choir in the Minster at York seemed 
to exclude us with reproach, almost with ignominy. 
We did what we could to repair our wounded self- 
respect, and did not lay our exclusion up against the 
Minster itself, which I find that I noted as " scatter- 
ingly noble outside.  ' By this I dare say I meant it 
had not that artistic unity of which I brought the im- 
pression from the inside. They were doing, as they 
were always doing, everywhere, with English cathedrals, 
 
something to one of the towers ; but this only enhanced 
its scattering nobleness, for it left that greatly bescaf- 
folded tower largely to the imagination, in which it 
soared sublimer, if anything, than its compeer. Most 
of the streets leading to and from the rather insufficient, 
irregular square where the Minster stands are lanes of 
little houses of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, 
which collectively curved in their line, and not only 
overhung at their second stories, but bulged outward 
involuntarily from the weakness of age. They were all 
quite habitable, and some much later dwellings im- 
mediately surrounding the church were the favorite 
sojourn, apparently, of such strangers as could have 
rooms at the hotels only until the Monday of Don- 
caster Week. 
During those limited days of the week before Don- 
caster, I was constantly coming back to the Minster, 
which is not the germ of political York, or hardly re- 
ligious York ; the brave city was a Romano - British 
capital and a Romano - British episcopal see centuries 
before the first wooden temple was built on the site of 
the present edifice in 627. I should like to make be- 
lieve that we found traces of that simple church in the 
crypt of the Minster when we went the next morning 
and were herded through it by the tenderest of vergers. 
Most of our flock were Americans, and we put our 
guide to such question in matters of imagination and 
information as the patience of a less amiable shepherd 
would not have borne. Many a tale, true or o'ertrue, 
our verger had, which he told with unction; when he 
ascended with us to the body of the church, and said 
that the stained glass of the gigantic windows suffered 
 
from the depredations of the mistaken birds which 
pecked holes in the joints of their panes, I felt that 
I had full measure from him, pressed down and run- 
ning over. I do not remember why he said the birds 
should have done this, but it seems probable that they 
took the mellow colors of the glass for those of ripe 
fruits. 
For myself, I could not get enough of those windows, 
in another sort of famine which ought at this time to 
have been sated. I was forever wondering at their 
grandeur outside and their glory inside. I was glad 
to lose my way about the town, for if I kept walking 
I was sure, sooner or later, to bring up at the Minster; 
but the last evening of our stay I made a purposed 
pilgrimage to it for a final emotion. It was the clear- 
est evening we had in York, and at half-past six the 
sun was setting in a transparent sky, which somehow 
it did not flush with any of those glaring reds which 
the vulgarer sorts of sunsets are fond of, but bathed 
the air in a delicate suffusion of daffodil light, just 
tinged with violet. This was the best medium to see 
the past of the Minster in, and I can see it there now, 
if I did not then. I followed, or I follow, its veracious 
history back to the beginning of the seventh century, 
whence you can look back further still to the earliest 
Christian temples where the Romans worshipped with 
the Britons, whom they had enslaved and converted. 
But it was not till 627 that the little wooden chapel 
was built on the site of the Minster, to house the rite 
of the Northumbrian King Eadwine's baptism. He felt 
so happy in his new faith that he replaced the wooden 
structure with stone. In the next century it was burn- 
ed, but rebuilt by another pious prince, and probably 
repaired by yet another after the Danes took the city 
a hundred years later. It was then in a good state 
 
to be destroyed by that devout William the Conqueror, 
who came to take the Saxon world in its sins of gut- 
tling and guzzling. The first Norman archbishop re- 
constructed or restored the church, and then it began 
to rise and to spread in glory nave, transepts, and 
choir, and pillars and towers, Norman and Early Eng- 
lish, and Perpendicular and Decorated till it found 
itself at last what the American tourist sees it to-day. 
It suffered from two great fires in the nineteenth cen- 
tury, the first set by a lunatic who had the fancy of 
seeing it burn, but who had only the satisfaction of 
destroying part of the roof. 
It was never richly painted, but the color wanting 
in the walls and fretted vault was more than com- 
pensated by the mellowed splendors of the matchless 
windows. It was, indeed, fit to be the home of much 
more secular history than can be associated with it; 
but not till the end of the thirteenth century had the 
Minster a patron of its own, when St. William was 
canonized, and exercised his office, whatever it was, for 
two brief centuries. Then the Cromwell of Henry 
VIII. took possession of it in behalf of the crown, 
and the saint's charge was practically abolished. He 
was even deprived of his head, for the relic was en- 
cased in gold and jewels, and was therefore worth the 
king's having, who was most a friend of the reformed 
religion when it paid best. The later Cromwell, who 
beat a later king hard by at Marston Moor, must have 
somehow desecrated the Minster, though there is no 
record of any such fact. A more authentic monument 
of the religious difficulties of the times is the pastoral 
staff, bearing the arms of Catharine of Braganza, the 
poor little wife of Charles II., which was snatched 
from a Roman Catholic bishop when, to the high of- 
fence of Protestant pietv, he was heading a procession 
in York in 1688. The verger showing us through the 
Minster was a good Protestant, but he held it bad taste 
in a predecessor of his, who when leading about a 
Catholic party of sight - seers took the captive staff 
from its place and shook it in their faces, saying, 
" Don't you wish you had it ?" 
IV 
There is no telling to what lengths true religion 
may rightly not go. I rather prize the incident as the 
sole fact concerning the Minster which I could make 
sure of even after repeated visits, and if I am indebted 
for my associations with it, long after the event, to 
Dr. Raine's scholarly and interesting sketch of York 
history, there is no reason why the better - informed 
reader should not accompany me in my last visit fully 
equipped. I walked slowly all round the structure, 
and fancied that I got a new sense of grandeur in the 
effect of the east window, which was, at any rate, more 
impressive than the north window. It was a long walk, 
almost the measure of such a walk as one should take 
after supper for one's health, and it had such incidents 
as many pauses for staring up at the many restorations 
going on. From point to point the incomparable Per- 
pendicular Gothic carried the eye to the old gargoyles 
of the eaves and towers waiting to be replaced by the 
new gargoyles, which lay in open-mouthed grimacing 
in the grass at the bases of the church. While I stood 
noting both, and thinking the chances were that I 
should never look on York Minster again, and feel- 
ing the luxurious pang of it, a verger in a skull-cap 
was so good as to come to a side door and parley long 
and pleasantly with a policeman. The simple local life 
 
went on around ; people going to or from supper passed 
me; kind, vulgar noises came from the little houses 
bulging over the narrow, neighboring streets; there 
seemed to be the stamping of horses in a stable, and 
there was certainly the misaspirated talk about them. 
I could not have asked better material for the humble 
emotions I love; and I was more than content on my 
way home to find myself one of the congregation at the 
loud devotions of a detachment of the Salvation Army. 
After a battering of drums and a clashing of cymbals 
and a shouting of hymns, the worship settled to the 
prayer of a weak brother, who was so long in suppli- 
cation that the head exhorter covered a yawn with his 
hand, and at the first sign of relenting in the supplicant 
bade the drums and cymbals strike up. Then, after a 
hymn, a sister, such a very plain, elderly sister, with 
hardly a tooth or an aitch in her head, began to relate 
her religious history. It appeared that she had been a 
much greater sinner than she looked, and that the mercy 
shown her had been proportionate. She was vain both 
of her sins and mercies, poor soul, and in her scrimp 
figure, with its ill-fitting uniform, Heaven knows how 
long she went on. I was distracted by a clergyman 
passing on the outside of the ring of listening women 
and children, and looking, I chose to think, somewhat 
sourly askance at the distasteful ceremonial. I wished 
to stop him, on his way to the Minster, if that was his 
way, and tell him that so Christianity must have be- 
gun, and so the latest form of it must always begin 
and work round after ages and ages to the beauty and 
respectability his own ritual has. But I now believe 
this would have been the greatest impertinence and 
hypocrisy, for I myself found the performance before 
us as tasteless and tawdry as he could possibly have 
done. He was going toward the Minster, and it would 
 
make him forget it; but I was going away from it, 
perhaps, for the last time, and this loud side-show of 
religion would make me forget the Minster. 
Our railway hotel lay a little way out of the town, 
and after a day's sight-seeing we were to meet or min- 
gle with troops of wholesome-looking workmen whose 
sturdiness and brightness were a consolation after the 
pale debility of labor's looks in Sheffield. From the 
chocolate-factories or the railroad-shops, which are the 
chief industries of York, they would be crossing the 
bridge of the Ouse, the famous stream on which the 
Romans had their town, and which suggested to the 
Anglicans to call their Eboracum Eurewic a town on 
a river. In due time the Danes modified this name 
to Yerik, and so we came honestly by the name of our 
own New York, called after the old York, as soon as 
the English had robbed the Dutch of it, and the King 
of England had given the province to his brother the 
Duke of York. Both cities are still towns on rivers, 
but the Ouse is no more an image or forecast of the 
Hudson than Old York is of New York. For that 
reason, the bridge over it is not to be compared to our 
Brooklyn Bridge, or even to any bridge which is yet 
to span the Hudson. The difference is so greatly in 
our favor that we may well yield our city's mother the 
primacy in her city wall. We have ourselves as yet 
no Plantagenet wall, and we have not yet got a medi- 
aeval gate through which the traveller passes in return- 
ing from the Elatiron Building to his hotel in the 
Grand Central Station. 
We do not begin to have such a hoar antiquity as 
is articulate in the mother city, speaking with muted 
voices from the innumerable monuments which the 
earth has yielded from the site of our hotel and its 
adjacent railway station. All underground York is 
doubtless fuller of Rome than even Bath is ; and it has 
happened that her civilization was much more largely 
dug up here than elsewhere when the foundations of 
the spreading edifices were laid. The relics are mainly 
the witnesses of pagan Rome, but Christianity polit- 
ically began in York, as it has politically ended in 
New York, and doubtless some soldiers of the Sixth 
Legion and many of the British slaves were religiously 
Christians in the ancient metropolis before Constantino 
was elected emperor there. 
I have been in many places where history is hos- 
pitably at home and is not merely an unwilling guest, 
as in our unmemoried land. Florence is very well, 
Venice is not so bad, Naples has her long thoughts, and 
Milan is mediaeval-minded, not to speak of Genoa, or 
Marseilles, or Paris, or those romantic German towns 
where the legends, if not the facts, abound ; but, after 
all, for my pleasure in the past, I could not choose any 
place before York. You need not be so very definite 
in your knowledge. The event of Constantine's pres- 
ence and election is so spacious as to leave no room 
for particulars in the imagination ; and you are so rich 
in it that you will even reject them from your thoughts, 
as you sit in the close-cropped flowery lawn of your 
hotel garden (try to imagine a railroad hotel garden 
in New York!) on the sunniest of the afternoons be- 
fore you are turned out for Doncaster Week, and, while 
you watch a little adventurous American boy climbing 
over a pile of rock-work, realize the most august, the 
most important fact in the story of the race as native 
to the very air you are breathing! Where you sit you 
 
are in full view of the Minster, which is to say in 
view of something like the towers and battlements of 
the celestial city. Or if you wake very early on a 
morning still nearer the fatal Doncaster Week of your 
impending banishment, and look out of your lofty win- 
dows at the sunrise reddening the level bars of cloud 
behind the Minster, you shall find it bulked up against 
the pearl-gray masses of the sunny mist which hangs 
in all the intervening trees, and solidifies them in un- 
broken masses of foliage. All round your hotel spreads 
a gridiron of railroad, yet such is the force of the Eng- 
lish genius for quiet that you hear no clatter of trains ; 
the expresses whir in and out of the station with not 
more noise than humming-birds; and amid this peace 
the past has some chance with modernity. The Britons 
dwell, unmolested by our latter - day clamor, in their 
wattled huts and dugouts ; the Romans come and make 
them slaves and then Christians, and after three or 
four hundred years send word from the Tiber to the 
Ouse that they can stay no longer, and so leave them 
naked to their enemies, the Picts and Scots and Saxons 
and Angles; and in due course come the ravaging and 
burning Danes ; and in due course still, the murdering 
and plundering and scorning Normans. But all so 
quietly, like the humming-bird-like expresses, with a 
kind of railway celerity in the foreshortened retro- 
spect ; and after the Normans have crushed themselves 
down into the mass of the vanquished, and formed the 
English out of the blend, there follow the many wars 
of the successions, of the Roses, of the Stuarts, with 
all the intermediate insurrections and rebellions. In 
the splendid Histories of Shakespeare, which are full 
of Yorh, the imagination visits and revisits the place, 
and you are entreated by mouth of one of his princely 
personages, 
" I pray you let us satisfy our eyes 
With the memorials and things of fame, 
That do renown this city," 
where his Henrys and Eichards and Margarets and 
Edwards and Eleanors abide still and shall forever 
abide while the English speech lasts. 
VI 
Something of all this I knew, and more pretended, 
with a mounting indignation at the fast-coming Don- 
caster Week which was to turn us out of our hotel. We 
began our search for other lodgings with what seemed 
to be increasing failure. The failure had consolation 
in it so far as the sweet regret of people whose apart- 
ments were taken could console. They would have 
taken us at other hotels for double the usual price, 
but, when we showed ourselves willing to pay, it proved 
that they had no rooms at any price. From house to 
house, then, we went, at first vaingloriously, in the 
spaces about the Minster, and then meekly into any 
side street, wherever the legend of Apartments showed 
itself in a transom. At last, the second day, after 
being denied at seven successive houses, we found quite 
the refuge we wanted in the Bootham, which means 
very much more than the ignorant reader can imagine. 
Our upper rooms looked on a pretty grassy garden space 
behind, where there was sun when there was sun, and 
in front on the fine old brick dwellings of a most 
personable street, with a sentiment of bygone fash- 
ion. At the upper end of it was a famous city gate 
Bootham Bar, namely with a practicable portcullis, 
which we verified at an early moment by going up into 
" the chamber over the gate," where it was once worked, 
 
and whence its lower beam, set thick with savage spikes, 
was dropped. Outside the gate there was a sign in the 
wall saying that guards were to be had there to guide 
travellers through the Forest of Galtres beyond Boot- 
ham, and keep them from the wolves. Now woods and 
wolves and guards are all gone, and Bootham Bar is 
never closed. 
The upper room is a passageway for people who are 
walking round the town on the Plantagenet wall, and 
one morning we took this walk in sunshine that be- 
fitted the Sabbath. Half the children of York seemed 
to be taking it, too, with their good parents, who had 
stayed away from church to give them this pleasure, 
the fathers putting on their frock-coats and top-hats, 
which are worn on no other days in the provincial cities 
of England. For a Plantagenet wall, that of York is 
in excellent repair, and it is very clean, so that the 
children could not spoil their Sunday best by clamber- 
ing on the parapet, and trying to fall over it. There 
was no parapet on the other side, and they could have 
fallen over that without trouble ; but it would not have 
served the same purpose; for under the parapet there 
were the most alluringly ragged little boys, with un- 
tidy goats and delightfully dirty geese. There was no 
trace of a moat outside the wall, where pleasant cot- 
tages pressed close to it with their gardens full of bright 
flowers. At one point there were far-spreading sheep 
and cattle pens, where there is a weekly market, and at 
another the old Norman castle which cruel Conqueror 
William built to hold the city, and which has suffered 
change, not unpicturesque, into prisons for unluckier 
criminals, and the Assize Courts for their condemna- 
tion. From time to time the wall left off, and then 
we got down, perforce, and walked to the next piece 
of it. In these pieces we made the most of the old 
gates, especially Walmgate Bar, which has a barbican. 
I should be at a loss to say why the barbican should 
have commended it so ; perhaps it was because we there 
realized, for the first time, what a barbican was; I 
doubt if the reader knows, now. Otherwise, I should 
have preferred Monk Bar or Micklegate Bar, as being 
more like those I was used to in the theatre. But we 
came back gladly to Bootham Bar, holding that a port- 
cullis was equal any day to a barbican, and feeling as 
if we had got home in the more familiar neighborhood. 
There were small shops in the Bootham, thread-and- 
needle stores, newspaper stores, and provision stores 
mainly, which I affected, and there was one united 
florist's and fruiterer's which I particularly liked be- 
cause of the conversability of the proprietor. He was 
a stout man, of a vinous complexion, with what I 
should call here, where our speech is mostly uncouth, 
an educated accent, though with few and wandering 
aspirates in it. Him I visited every morning to buy 
for my breakfast one of those Spanish melons which 
they have everywhere in England, and which put our 
native cantaloupes to shame; and we always fell into 
a little talk over our transaction of fourpence or six- 
pence, as the case might be. After I had confided that 
I was an American, he said one day, " Ah, the Amer- 
icans are clever people." Then he added, " I hope you 
won't mind my saying it, sir, but I think their ladies 
are rather harder than our English ladies, sir." 
" Yes," I eagerly assented. " How do you mean ? 
Sharper ? Keener ?" 
" Well, not just that, sir." 
" More practical ? More business-like ?" I pursued. 
" Well, I shouldn't like to say that, sir. But they 
seem rather harder, sir ; at least, judging from what I 
see of them in York, sir. Bather harder, sir." 
 
We remained not the less friends with that mystery 
between us ; and I bought my last melon of him. on 
my last morning, when the early September had turned 
somewhat sharply chill. That turn made me ask what 
the winter was in York, and he boasted it very cold, 
with ice and snow aplenty, and degrees of frost much 
like our own. But apparently those York women re- 
sisted it and remained of a tenderness which contrasted 
to their advantage with the summer hardness of our 
women. 
VII 
It was a pleasure, which I should be glad to share 
with the reader, to lose one's self in the streets of York. 
They were all kinds of streets except straight, and 
they seemed not to go anywhere except for the joke 
of bringing the wayfarer unexpectedly back to, or near, 
his starting-point and far from his goal. The blame 
of their vagariousness, if it was a fault, is put upon 
the Danes, who found York when they captured it very 
rectangular, for so the Romans built it, and so the 
Angles kept it; but nothing would serve the Danes 
but to crook its streets and call them gates, so that the 
real gates of the city have to be called bars, or else 
the stranger might take them for streets. If he asked 
another wayfarer, he could sometimes baffle the streets, 
and get to the point he aimed at, but, whether he did 
or not, he could always amuse himself in them; they 
would take a friendly interest in him, and show him 
the old houses and churches which the American 
stranger prefers. They abound in the poorer sorts 
of buildings, of course, just as they do in the poorer 
sorts of people, but in their simpler courts and squares 
and expanses they have often dignified mansions of 
that Georgian architecture which seems the last word 
in its way, and which is known here in our older edi- 
fices as there in their newer. Some of them are said 
to have " richly carved ceilings, wainscoted, panelled 
rooms, chimneypieces with paintings framed in the 
over-mantel, dentilled cornices, and pedimented doors," 
and I could well helieve it, as I passed them with an 
envious heart. There were gardens behind these man- 
sions which hung their trees over the spiked coping 
of their high-shouldered walls and gates, and seques- 
tered I know not what damp social events in their 
flowery and leafy bounds. 
At times I distinctly wished to know something of 
the life of York, but I was not in the way of it. The 
nearest to an acquaintance I had there, besides my 
critical fruiterer, was the actor whose name I recog- 
nized on his bills as that of a brave youth who had 
once dramatized a novel of mine, and all too briefly 
played the piece, and who was now to come to York 
for a week of Shakespeare. Perhaps I could not for- 
give him the recrudescence ; at any rate, I did not try 
to see him, and there was no other social chance for me, 
except as I could buy in for a few glimpses at the tidy 
confectioners', where persons of civil condition resorted 
for afternoon tea. Even to these one could not speak, 
and I could only do my best in a little mercenary con- 
versation with the bookseller about Y r ork histories. The 
book-stores were not on our scale, and generally the 
shops in York were not of the modern department type, 
but were perhaps the pleasaiiter for that reason. 
In my earlier wanderings I made the acquaintance 
of a most agreeable market-place, stretching the length 
of two squares, which on a Saturday afternoon I found 
filled with every manner of bank and booth and can- 
opied counter, three deep, and humming pleasantly 
 
with traffic in everything one could eat, drink, wear, 
or read ; there seemed as many book - stalls as fruit- 
stalls. What I noted equally with the prettiness of 
the abounding flowers was the mild kindness of the 
market-people's manners and their extreme anxiety to 
state exactly the quality of the things they had for 
sale. They seemed incapable of deceit, but I do not 
say they really were so. My own transactions were 
confined to the purchase of some golden-gage plums, 
and I advise the reader rather to buy greengages; the 
other plums practised the deception in their looks which 
their venders abhorred. 
VIII 
I wandered in a perfectly contemporary mood 
through the long ranks and lanes of the market-place, 
and did not know till afterward that at one end of it, 
called the Pavement, the public executions used to 
take place for those great or small occasions which 
brought folks to the block or scaffold in the past. I 
had later some ado to verify the dismal fact from a 
cluster of people before a tavern who seemed to be 
taking bets for the Doncaster Week, and I could hardly 
keep them from booking me for this horse or that when 
I merely wanted to know whether it was on a certain 
spot the Earl of Northumberland had his head cut off 
for leading a rising against Henry IV. ; or some such 
execution. 
What riches of story has not York to browbeat with- 
al the storyless New - Yorker who visits her ! That 
Henry IV. was he whom I had lately seen triumph- 
ing near Shrewsbury in the final battle of the Roses, 
where the Red was so bloodily set above the White; 
and it was his poetic fancy to have Northumberland, 
when he bade him come to York, pass through the gate- 
way on which the head of his son, Hotspur Harry, was 
festering. No wonder the earl led a rising against his 
liege, who had first mercifully meant to imprison him 
for life, and then more mercifully pardoned him. But 
there seems to have been fighting up and down the 
centuries from the beginning, in York, interspersed 
with praying and wedding and feasting. After the 
citizens drove out Conqueror William's garrison, and 
Earl Waltheof provided against the Normans' return 
by standing at the castle gate and chopping their heads 
oil with his battle-axe as they came forth, William ef- 
ficaciously devastated the city and the country as far as 
Durham. His son William gave it a church, and that 
" worthy peer," King Stephen, a hospital. In his time 
the archbishop and barons of York beat the Scotch hard 
by, and the next Scotch king had to do homage to 
Henry II. at York for his kingdom. Henry III. 
married his sister at York to one Scotch king and his 
daughter to that king's successor. Edward I. and his 
queen Eleanor honored with their presence the trans- 
lation of St. William's bones to the Minster; Edward 
II. retreated from his defeat at Bannockburn to York, 
and Edward III. was often there for a king's varied 
occasions of fighting and feasting. Weak Henry VI. 
and his wilful Margaret, after their defeat at Towton 
by Edward IV., escaped from the city just in time, and 
Edward entered York under his own father's head on 
Micklegate Bar. Richard III. was welcomed there 
before his rout and death at Bosworth, and was truly 
mourned by the citizens. Henry VII. wedded Eliza- 
beth, the " White Rose of York," and afterward visited 
her city; Mary, Queen of Scots, was once in hiding- 
there, and her uncouth son stayed two nights in York 
on his way to be crowned James I. in London. His 
son, Charles I., was there early in his reign, and touch- 
ed many for the king's evil ; later, he was there again, 
but could not cure the sort of king's evil which raged 
past all magic in the defeat of his followers at Marston 
Moor by Cromwell. The city yielded to the Puritans, 
whose temperament had already rather characterized it. 
James II., as Duke of York, made it his brief sojourn ; 
" proud Cumberland," returning from Culloden after 
the defeat of the Pretender, visited the city and re- 
ceived its freedom for destroying the last hope of the 
Stuarts; perhaps the twenty-two rebels who were then 
put to death in York were executed in the very square 
where those wicked men thought I was wanting to play 
the horses. The reigning family has paid divers visits 
to the ancient metropolis, which was the capital of 
Britain before London was heard of. The old prophecy 
of her ultimate primacy must make time if it is to 
fulfil itself and increase York's seventy-two thousand 
beyond London's six million. 
IX 
I should be at a loss to say why* its English memo- 
ries haunted my York less than the Roman associations 
of the place. They form, however, rather a clutter of 
incidents, whereas the few spreading facts of Hadrian's 
stay, the deaths of Severus and Constantius, and the 
election of Constantine, his son, enlarge themselves to 
the atmospheric compass of the place, but leave a 
roominess in which the fancy may more commodi- 
ously orb about. I was on terms of more neighborly 
intimacy with the poor Punic emperor than with any 
one else in York, doubtless because, when he fell sick, 
he visited the temple of Bellona near Bootham Bar, 
and paid his devotions unmolested, let us hope, by any 
prevision of the misbehavior of his son Caracalla 
(whose baths I had long ago visited at Rome) in 
killing his other son Geta. Everywhere I could be an 
early Christian, in company with Constantine, in whom 
the instinct of political Christianity must have begun 
to stir as soon as he was chosen emperor. But I dare 
say I heard the muted tramp of the Sixth Legion about 
the Yorkish streets above all other martial sounds be- 
cause I stayed as long as Doncaster Week would let 
me in the railway hotel, which so many of their bones 
made room for when the foundations of it were laid, 
with those of the adherent station. Their bones seem 
to have been left there, after the disturbance, but their 
sepulchres were respectfully transferred to the museum 
of the Philosophical Society, in the grounds where the 
ruins of St. Mary's Abbey rise like fragments of pen- 
sive music or romantic verse, inviting the moonlight 
and the nightingale, but, wanting these, make shift 
with the noonday and the babies in perambulators neg- 
lected by nurse-girls reading novels. 
The babies and the nurses are not allowed in the 
museum of antiquities, which is richer in Roman re- 
mains than any that one sees outside of Italy. There 
are floors of mosaic, large and perfect, taken from the 
villas which people are always digging up in the neigh- 
borhood of York, and, from the graves uncovered in the 
railway excavations, coffins of lead and stone for civ- 
ilians, and of rude tiles for the soldiers of the Sixth 
Legion; the slaves were cast into burial-pits of tens 
and twenties and left to indiscriminate decay till they 
should be raised in the universal incorruption. Prob- 
ably the slaves were the earliest Christians at York; 
certainly the monuments are pagan, as the inmates of 
the tombs must have been. Some of the monuments 
 
bear inscriptions from loving wives and husbands to 
the partners they have lost, and some of the stone coffins 
are those of children. It is all infinitely touching, and 
after two thousand years the heart aches for the fathers 
and mothers who laid their little ones away in these 
hard cradles for their last sleep. Faith changes, but 
constant death remains the same, and life is not very 
different in any age, when it comes to the end. The 
Roman exiles who had come so far to hold my British 
ancestors in subjection to their alien rule seemed es- 
sentially not only of the same make as me, but the 
same civilization. Their votive altars and inscriptions 
to other gods expressed a human piety of like anxiety 
and helplessness with ours, and called to a like irre- 
sponsive sky. A hundred witnesses of their mortal 
state jars and vases and simple household utensils 
fill the shelves of the museum ; but the most awful, the 
most beautiful appeal of the past is in that mass of 
dark auburn hair which is kept here in a special urn 
and uncovered for your supreme emotion. It is equally 
conjectured to be the hair of a Roman lady or of a 
British princess, but is of a young girl certainly, dress- 
ed twenty centuries ago for the tomb in which it was 
found, and still faintly lucent with the fashionable 
unguent of the day, and kept in form by pins of jet. 
One thinks of the little, slender hands that used to put 
them there, and of the eyes that confronted themselves 
in the silver mirror under the warm shadow that the 
red -gold mass cast upon the white forehead. This 
sanctuary of the past was the most interesting place 
in that most interesting city of York, and the day of 
our first visit a princess of New York sat reading a 
book in the midst of it, waiting for the rain to be 
over, which was waiting for her to come out and then 
begin again. We knew her from having seen her at 
the station in relation to some trunks bearing her in- 
itials and those of her native city; and she could be 
about the age of the York princess or young Roman 
lady whose hair was kept in the urn hard by. 
There is in York a little, old, old church, whose dear 
and reverend name I have almost forgotten, if ever I 
knew it, but I think it is Holy Trinity Goodramgate, 
which divides the heart of my adoration with the Min- 
ster. We came to it quite by accident, one of our sad 
September afternoons, after we had been visiting the 
Guildhall, Venetianly overhanging the canal calm of 
the Ouse, and very worthy to be seen for its York 
histories in stained glass. The custodian had surprised 
us and the gentlemen of the committee by taking us 
into the room where they were investigating the claims 
of the registered voters to the suffrage; and so, much 
entertained and instructed, we issued forth, and, pass- 
ing by the church in which Guy Fawkes was baptized, 
only too ineffectually, we came quite unexpectedly upon 
Holy Trinity Goodramgate, if that and not another is 
indeed its name. N 
It stands sequestered in a little leafy and grassy 
space of its own, with a wall hardly overlooked on one 
side by low stone cottages, the immemorial homes of 
rheumatism and influenza. The church had the air of 
not knowing that it is of Perpendicular and Decorated 
Gothic, with a square, high - shouldered tower, as it 
bulks up to a very humble height from the turf to 
the boughs overhead, or that it has a nice girl sketching 
its doorway, where a few especially favored weddings 
and funerals may enter. It is open once a year for 
 
service, and when the tourist will, or can, for the sight 
of the time-mellowed, beautiful stained glass of its east- 
ward window. The oaken pews are square and high- 
shouldered, like the low church tower; and, without, 
the soft yellow sandstone is crumbling away from the 
window traceries. The church did not look as if it 
felt itself a thousand years old, and perhaps it is not; 
but I never was in a place where I seemed so like a 
ghost of that antiquity. I had a sense of haunting it, 
in the inner twilight and the outer sunlight, where a 
tender wind was stirring the leaves of its embowering 
trees and scattering them on the graves of my eleventh 
and twelfth century contemporaries. 
XI 
We chose the sunniest morning we could for our 
visit to Clifford's Tower, which remains witness of the 
Norman castle the Conqueror built and rebuilt to keep 
the Danish-Anglian-Roman-British town in awe. But 
the tower was no part of the original castle, and only 
testifies of it by hearsay. That was built by Roger do 
Clifford, who suffered death with his party chief, the 
Earl of Lancaster, when Edward of York took the city, 
and it is mainly memorable as the refuge of the Jews 
whom the Christians had harried out of their homes. 
They had grown in numbers and riches, when the Jew- 
hate of 1190 broke out in England, as from time to 
time the Jew-hate breaks out in Russia now, to much 
the same cruel effect. They were followed and be- 
sieged in the castle, and, seeing that they must be 
