
"Yes," she said, looking up at Kathleen.

Her brother drew her to her feet. She gave him a little hug.

"Believe in me, dear," she said. "I'll do it easier if you do."

"Of course I do. You're a better sport than I. You always were. And
that's no idle jest; witness my nose and Duane's in days gone by."

The girl smiled. As they turned homeward she slung her rifle, passed her
right arm through Kathleen's, and dropped her left on her brother's
shoulder. She was very tired, and hopeful that she might sleep.

And tired, hopeful, thinking of her lover, she passed through the woods,
leaning on those who were nearest and most dear.

Somehow--and just why was not clear to her--it seemed at that moment as
though she had passed the danger mark--as though the very worst lay
behind her--close, scarcely clear of her skirts yet, but all the same it
lay behind her, not ahead.

She knew, and dreaded, and shrank from what still lay before her; she
understood into what ruin treachery to self might precipitate her still
at any moment. And yet, somehow, she felt vaguely that something had
been gained that day which never before had been gained. And she thought
of her lover as she passed through the forest, leaning on Scott and
Kathleen, her little feet keeping step with theirs, her eyes steady in
the red western glare that flooded the forest to an infernal beauty.

Behind her streamed her gigantic shadow; behind her lay another shadow,
cast by her soul and floating wide of it now. And it must never touch
her soul again, God helping.

Suddenly her heart almost ceased its beating. Far away within, stirring
in unsuspected depths, something moved furtively.

Her face whitened a little; her eyes closed, the lids fluttered, opened;
she gazed straight in front of her, walked on, small head erect, lips
firm, facing the hell that lay before her--lay surely, surely before
her. For the breath of it glowed already in her veins and the voices of
it were already busy in her ears, and the unseen stirring of it had
begun once more within her body--that tired white, slender body of hers
which had endured so bravely and so long.

If sleep would only aid her, come to her in her need, be her ally in the
peril of her solitude--if it would only come, and help her to endure!

And wondering if it would, not knowing, hoping, she walked onward
through the falling night.




CHAPTER XVII

THE DANGER MARK


Her letters to him still bore the red cross:

    "I understand perfectly why you cannot come," she wrote; "I would do
    exactly as you are doing if I had a father. It must be a very great
    happiness to have one. My need of you is not as great as his; I can
    hold my own alone, I think. You see I am doing it, and you must not
    worry. Only, dear, when you have the opportunity, come up if only
    for a day."

And again, in November:

    "You are the sweetest boy, and it is not difficult to understand why
    your father cannot endure to have you out of his sight. But is this
    not a very heavy strain on you? Of course your mother and Naïda must
    not be left alone with him; you are the only son, and your place is
    there.

    "Dear, I know what you are going through is one of the most dreadful
    things that any man is called upon to bear--your father stricken,
    your mother and sister prostrate; the newspapers--for I have read
    them--cruel beyond belief! But whatever they say, whatever is true
    or untrue, Duane, remember that it cannot affect my regard for you
    and yours.

    "If I had a father, whatever he might have done, or permitted others
    to do, would not, could not alter my affection for him.

    "Men say that women have no sense of honour. I do not know what
    that sense may be if it falters when loyalty and compassion are
    needed, too.

    "I have read the papers; I know only what I read and what you tell
    me. The rules that custom has framed to safeguard and govern
    financial operations, I do not understand; but, as far as I can
    comprehend, it seems to me that custom has hitherto sanctioned what
    disaster has now placed under a bann. It seems to me that the very
    men who now blame your father have all done successfully what he did
    so disastrously.

    "One thing I know: no kinder, dearer man than your father ever
    lived; and I love him, and I love his family, and I will marry his
    son when I am fit to do it."

And again she wrote:

    "I saw in the papers that the Algonquin Trust Company had closed its
    doors; I read the heartbreaking details of the crowds besieging it,
    the lines of frightened people standing there in the rain all night
    long. It is dreadful, terrible!

    "Who are these Wall Street men who would not help the Algonquin when
    they could? Why is the Clearing House so bitter? I don't know what
    it all means; I read columns about poor Jack Dysart--words and
    figures and technical phrases and stock quotations--and it means
    nothing, and I understand nothing of it save that it is all a fierce
    outcry against him and against the men with whom he was financially
    involved.

    "The papers are so gloomy, so eager in their search for evil, so
    merciless, so exultant when scandal is unearthed, that I can
    scarcely bear to read them. Why do they drag in unhappy people who
    know nothing about these matters? The interview with your mother and
    Naïda, which you say is false, was most dreadful. How cruel men are!

    "Tell them I love them dearly; tell your father, too. And, dear, I
    don't know exactly how Scott and I are situated, but if we can be of
    any financial use to you, please, please let us! Our fortune, when
    it came to us, was, I believe, all in first mortgages and railroad
    securities. I believe that Scott made some changes in our
    investments under advice from your father. I don't know what they
    were.

    "Don't bother your father with such details now; he has enough to
    think of lying there in his grief, bewildered, broken in mind and
    body. Duane, is it not more merciful that he is unable to understand
    what the papers are saying?

    "Dear, heart and soul I am loyal to you and yours."

She wrote again:

    "Yes, I had a talk with Scott. I did not know he had been receiving
    all those letters from your attorneys. Magnelius Grandcourt manages
    the investments. Scott's brokers are Stainer & Elting; our attorneys
    are, as you know, Landon, Brooks & Gayfield.

    "Duane, I absolutely forbid you to worry. My brother is of age,
    sound in mind and body, responsible for whatever he does or has
    done. It is his affair if he solicits advice, his affair if he
    follows it. Your father has no responsibility whatever in the matter
    of the Cascade Development and Securities Company. Besides, Scott
    tells me that what he did was against the advice of Mr. Tappan.

    "I remember last winter that he brought a Mr. Skelton to luncheon,
    and a horrid man named Klawber.

    "Poor Scott! He certainly knows nothing about business matters. I
    know he had no desire to increase his private fortune; he tells me
    that what interested him in the Cascade Development and Securities
    Company was the chance that cheap radium might stimulate scientific
    research the world over. Poor Scott!

    "Dear, you are not to think for one instant that any trouble which
    may involve Scott is due to you or yours. And if it were, Duane, it
    could make no difference to him or to me. Money and what it buys is
    such a pitiful detail in what goes to make up happiness. Who but I
    should understand that!

    "Loss of social prestige and position, is a serious matter, I
    suppose; I may show my ignorance and inexperience when I tell you
    how much more serious to me are other things--like the loss of faith
    in one's self or in others--or the loss of the gentler virtues,
    which means the loss of what one once was.

    "The loss of honour is, as you say, a pitiful thing; yet, I think
    that when that happens, love and compassion were never more truly
    needed.

    "Honour, as I understand it, is not to take advantage of others or
    of one's better self. This is a young girl's definition. I cannot
    see--if one has yielded once to temptation, and truly repents--why
    honour cannot be regained.

    "The honour of men and nations that seems to require arrogance,
    aggression, violence for its defence, I do not understand. How can
    the misdeeds of others impair one's true honour? How can punishment
    for such misdeeds restore it? No; it lies within one, quite
    intangible save by one's self.

    "Why should I not know, dear?--I who have lost my own and found it,
    have held it desperately for a while, then lost it, then regained
    it, holding it again as I do now--alas!--against no other enemy than
    I who write this record for your eyes!

    "Dear, I know of nothing lost which may not be regained, except
    life. I know of nothing which cannot be rendered tolerable through
    loyalty.

    "That material happiness which means so much to some, means now so
    very little to me, perhaps because I have never lacked it.

    "Yet I know that, once mistress of myself, nothing else could matter
    unless your love failed."

Again she wrote him toward the end of November:

    "Why will you not let me help you, dear? My fortune is practically
    intact so far, except that, of course, I met those obligations which
    Scott could not meet. Poor Scott!

    "You know it's rather bewildering to me where millions go to. I
    don't quite comprehend how they can so utterly vanish in such a
    short time, even in such a frightful fiasco as the Cascade
    Development Company.

    "So many people have been here--Mr. Landon and Mr. Gayfield, Mr.
    Stainer of Elting & Stainer, that dreadful creature Klawber, a very
    horrid man named Amos Flack--and dear, grim, pig-headed Mr.
    Tappan--old Remsen Tappan of all men!

    "He practically kicked out Mr. Flack and the creature Klawber, who
    had been trying to frighten Scott and me and even our lawyers.

    "And think, Duane! He never uttered one sarcasm, one reproach for
    Scott's foolishness; he sat grim and rusty as the iron that he once
    dealt in, listening to what Scott had to tell him, never opening
    that cragged jaw, never unclosing that thin line of cleavage which
    is his mouth.

    "We did not know what he had come for; but we know now. He is so
    good--so good, Duane! And I, who hated him as a child, as a girl--I
    am almost too ashamed to let him take command and untangle for us,
    with those knotted, steel-sinewed fingers of his, the wretched,
    tangled mess that has coiled around Scott and me.

    "Surely, this man Klawber is a very great villain; and it seems that
    Mr. Skelton and the wretched Flack creature are little less. As for
    Jack Dysart, it is all too sorrowful to think about. How must he
    feel! Surely, surely he could not have known what he was doing. He
    must have been desperate to go to Delancy Grandcourt. It was wrong;
    nothing on earth could have propped up the Algonquin, and why did he
    let his best friend go down with it?

    "But it was fine of Delancy to stand by him--fine, fine! His father
    is perfectly furious, but, Duane, it was fine!

    "And now, dear, about Scott. It will amuse you, and perhaps horrify
    you, if I tell you that he has not turned a hair.

    "Not that he doesn't care; not that he is not more or less
    mortified. But he blames nobody except himself; and he's laying
    plans quite cheerfully for a career on a small income that really
    does not require the austerity and frugality he imagines.

    "One thing is certain; the town house is to be sold. My income is
    not sufficient to maintain it and Roya-Neh, and live as we do, and
    have anything left. I don't yet know how far my fortune is involved,
    but I have a very unpleasant premonition that there is going to be
    much less left than anybody believes, and that ultimately we ought
    to sell Roya-Neh.

    "However, it is far too early to speculate; besides, this family has
    done enough speculating for one generation.

    "Dear, you ask about myself. I am not one bit worried, sad, or
    apprehensive. I am better, Duane. Do you understand? All this has
    developed a set of steadier nerves in me than I have had since I was
    a child.

    "A new and curiously keen enjoyment has been slowly growing in me--a
    happiness in physical and violent effort. I've a devilish horse to
    ride; and I love it! I've climbed all over the Gilded Dome and Lynx
    Peak after the biggest and shaggiest boar you ever saw. Oh, Duane! I
    came on him just at the edge of evening, and he winded me and went
    thundering down the Westgate ravine, and I fired too quickly.

    "But I'm after him almost every day with old Miller, and my arms and
    legs are getting so strong, and my flesh so firm, and actually I'm
    becoming almost plump in the face! Don't you care for that kind of a
    girl?

    "Dear, do you think I've passed the danger mark? Tell me
    honestly--not what you want to think, but what you do believe. I
    don't know whether I have passed it yet. I feel, somehow, whichever
    side of it I am on, that the danger mark is not very far away from
    me. I've got to get farther away. The house in town is open. Mrs.
    Farren, Hilda, and Nellie are there if we run into town.

    "Kathleen is so happy for me. I've told her about the red cross. She
    is too sweet to Scott; she seems to think he really grieves deeply
    over the loss of his private fortune. What a dear she is! She is
    willing to marry him now; but Scott strikes attitudes and declares
    she shall have a man whose name stands for an achievement--meaning,
    of course, the Seagrave process for the extermination of the
    Rose-beetle.

    "Duane, I am quite unaccountably happy to-day. Nothing seems to
    threaten. But don't stop loving me."

Followed three letters less confident, and another very pitiful--a
frightened letter asking him to come if he could. But his father's
condition forbade it and he dared not.

Then another letter came, desperate, almost incoherent, yet still
bearing the red cross faintly traced. And on the heels of it a telegram:

    "Could you stand by me until this is over? I am afraid of to-night.
    Am on my way to town with my maid, very ill. I know you cannot
    leave your father except at night. I will telephone you from the
    house.
                                                          "G.S."

On the train a dispatch was handed her:

    "I will be at your house as soon as my father is asleep. Don't
    worry.
                                                        "DUANE."

Hour after hour she sat motionless beside the car-window, quiet, pale,
dark eyes remote; trees, houses, trains, telegraph-poles streamed past
in one gray, unending blur; rain which at first had only streaked the
grimy window-glass with cinders, became sleet, then snow, clotting the
dripping panes.

At last, far away under a heavy sky, the vast misshapen landmarks of New
York loomed up gray through the falling snow; the train roared over the
Harlem, halted at 125th Street, rolled on into the black tunnel, faster,
faster, slower, then more slowly, and stopped. All sounds ceased at the
same moment; silence surrounded her, dreary as the ominous silence
within.

Dunn met her with a brougham; Fifth Avenue was slippery with filthy,
melting slush; yet, somehow, into her mind came the memory of her return
from her first opera--the white avenue at midnight, the carriage, lamps
lighted, speeding through the driving snow. Yesterday, the quiet,
untainted whiteness of childhood; to-day, trouble and stress and stained
snow melting into mud--so far behind her lay innocence and peace on the
long road she had travelled! So far had she already journeyed--toward
what?

She pressed her lips more tightly together and buried her chin in her
sable muff. Beside her, her maid sat shivering and stifling yawn after
yawn and thinking of dinner and creature comforts, and of Dunn, the
footman, whom she did ardently admire.

The big red brick house among its naked trees seemed sad and deserted as
the brougham flashed into the drive and stopped, the horses stamping and
pawing the frozen gravel. Geraldine had never before been away from home
so long, and now as she descended from the carriage and looked vaguely
about her it seemed as though she had, somehow, become very, very young
again--that it was her child-self that entered under the porte-cochère
after the prescribed drive that always ended outdoor exercise in the
early winter evenings; and she half expected to see old Howker in the
hall, and Margaret trotting up to undo her furs and leggings--half
expected to hear Kathleen's gay greeting, to see her on the stairs, so
young, so sweetly radiant, her arms outstretched in welcome to her
children who had been away scarcely a full hour.

"I'd like to have a fire in my bedroom and in the upper library," she
said to Hilda, who had smilingly opened the door for her. "I'll dine in
the upper library, too. When Mr. Mallett arrives, you need not come up
to announce him. Ask him to find me in the library."

To Mrs. Farren she said: "Nobody need sit up. When Mr. Mallett leaves, I
will put the chains on and bolt everything."

She was destined not to keep this promise.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bathed, her hair brushed and dressed, she suffered her maid to hook her
into a gown which she could put off again unassisted--one of those gowns
that excite masculine admiration by reason of its apparent
inexpensiveness and extreme simplicity. It was horribly expensive, of
course--white, and cut out in a circle around her neck like a young
girl's gown; and it suited Geraldine's slender, rounded throat and her
dainty head with its heavy, loosely drawn masses of brown hair, just
shadowing cheeks and brow.

When the last hook was looped she dismissed her maid for the night;
Hilda served her at dinner, but she ate little, and the waitress bore
away the last of the almost untouched food, leaving her young mistress
seated before the fire and looking steadily into it.

The fire was a good one; the fuel oak and ash and beech. The flames made
a silky, rustling sound; now and then a coal fell with a softly
agreeable crash and a swarm of golden sparks whirled up the chimney,
snapping, scintillating, like day fireworks.

Geraldine sat very still, her mouth resting on her white wrist, and when
she lifted her head the marks of her teeth showed on the skin. Then the
other hand, clutching the arm of her chair, fell to her side cramped
and quivering; she stood up, looked at the fire, pressed both palms
across her eyes, turned and began to pace the room.

To and fro she moved, slowly, quickly, as the craving for motion ebbed
or increased. At times she made unconscious movements with her arms, now
flinging them wide, now flexing the muscles, clenching the hands; but
always the arms fell helpless, hopeless; the slim, desperate fingers
relaxed; and she moved on again, to and fro, up and down, turning her
gaze toward the clock each time she passed it.

In her eyes there seemed to be growing a dreadful sort of beauty; there
was fire in them, the luminous brightness of the tortured. On both
cheeks a splendid colour glowed and waned; the slightly drawn lips were
vivid.

But this--all of it changed as the slow minutes dragged their course;
into the brown eyes crept the first frosty glimmer of desperation;
colour faded from the face, leaving it snowy white; the fulness of the
lips vanished, the chin seemed to grow pointed, and under the eyes
bluish shadows deepened. It promised to go hard with her that night; it
was already going very badly. She knew it, and digging her nails into
her delicate palms, set her teeth together and drew a deep, unsteady
breath.

She had looked at the clock four times, and the hands seemed to have
moved no more than a minute's space across the dial; and once more she
turned to pace the floor.

Her lips had lost almost all their colour now; they moved, muttering
tremulous incoherences; the outline of every feature grew finer,
sharper, more spiritual, but dreadfully white.

Later she found herself on her knees beside the couch, face buried in
the cushions, her small teeth marking her wrist again--heard herself
crying out for somebody to help her--yet her lips had uttered no sound;
it was only her soul in its agony, while the youthful, curved body and
rigid limbs burnt steadily in hell's own flames.

Again she raised her head and lifted her white face toward the clock.
Only a minute had crept by, and she turned, twisting her interlocked
hands, dry-eyed, dry lips parted, and stared about her. Half stupefied
with pain, stunned, dismayed by the million tiny voices of temptation
assailing her, dinning in her senses, she reeled where she knelt, fell
forward, laid her slender length across the hearth-rug, and set her
teeth in her wrist again, choking back the cry of terror and desolation.

And there her senses tricked her--or she may have lost
consciousness--for it seemed that the next moment she was on the stairs,
moving stealthily--where? God and her tormented body seemed to know, for
she caught herself halfway down the stairs, cried out on her Maker for
strength, stood swaying, breathless, quivering in the agony of it--and
dragged herself back and up the stairs once more, step by step, to the
landing.

For a moment she stood there, shaking, ghastly, staring down into the
regions below, where relief lay within her reach. And she dared not even
stare too long; she turned blindly, arms outstretched, feeling her way
back. Every sense within her seemed for the moment deadened; sounds
scarcely penetrated, had no meaning; she heard the grille clash, steps
on the stair; she was trying to get back to the library, paused to rest
at the door, was caught in two strong arms, drawn into them:

"Duane," she whispered.

"Darling!"--and as he saw her face--"My God!"

"Mine, too, Duane. Don't be afraid; I'm holding firm, so far. But I am
very, very ill. Could you help me a little?"

"Yes, child!--yes, little Geraldine--my little, little girl----"

"Can you stay near me?"

"Yes! Good God, yes!"

"How long?"

"As long as you want me."

"Then I can get through with this. I think to-night decides.... If you
will remain with me--for a while----"

"Yes, dear."

He drew a chair to the fire; she sank into it; he seated himself beside
her and she clung to his hand with both of hers.

His eyes fell upon her wrist where the marks of her teeth were
imprinted; he felt her body trembling, saw the tragedy in her eyes,
rose, lifted her as though she were a child, and seating himself, drew
her close against his breast.

The night was a hard one; sometimes in an access of pain she struggled
for freedom, and all his strength was needed to keep her where she lay.
At times, too, her senses seemed clouded, and she talked incoherently;
sometimes she begged for relief, shamelessly craved it; sometimes she
used all her force, and, almost beside herself, defied him, threatened
him, turned on him infuriated; but his strength held her locked in a
vicelike embrace, and, toward morning, she suddenly relaxed--crumpled
up like a white flower in his arms. For a while her tears fell hot and
fast; then utter prostration left her limp, without movement, even
without a tremor, a dead weight in his arms.

And, for the second time in his life, lifting her, he bore her to her
room, laid her among the pillows, slipped off her shoes, and, bending
above her, listened.

She slept profoundly--but it was not the stupor that had chained her
limbs that other time when he had brought her here.

He went into the library and waited for an hour. Then, very quietly, he
descended the stairs and let himself out into the bitter darkness of a
November morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

About noon next day the Seagraves' brougham drew up before the Mallett
house and Geraldine, in furs, stepped out and crossed the sidewalk with
that swift, lithe grace of hers. The servant opened the grille; she
entered and stood by the great marble-topped hall-table until Duane came
down. Then she gave him her gloved hands, looking him straight in the
eyes.

She was still pale but self-possessed, and wonderfully pretty in her fur
jacket and toque; and as she stood there, both hands dropped into his,
that nameless and winning grace which had always fascinated him held him
now--something about her that recalled the child in the garden with
clustering hair and slim, straight limbs.

"You look about fifteen," he said, "you beautiful, slender thing! Did
you come to see my father?"

"Yes--and your father's son."



"Me?"

"Is there another like you, Duane--in all the world?"

"Plenty----"

"Hush!... When did you go last night?"

"When you left me for the land of dreams, little lady."

"So you--carried me."

He smiled, and a bright flush covered her cheeks.

"That makes twice," she said steadily.

"Yes, dear."

"There will be no third time."

"Not unless I have a sleepy wife who nods before the fire like a drowsy
child."

"Do you want that kind?"

"I want the kind that lay close in my arms before the fire last night."

"Do you? I think I should like the sort of husband who is strong enough
to cradle that sort of a child.... Could your mother and Naïda receive
me? Could I see your father?"

"Yes. When are you going back to Roya-Neh?"

"To-night."

He said quietly: "Is it safe?"

"For me to go? Yes--yes, my darling"--her hands tightened over
his--"yes, it is safe--because you made it so. If you knew--if you knew
what is in my heart to--to give you!--what I will be to you some day,
dearest of men----"

He said unsteadily: "Come upstairs.... My father is very feeble, but
quite cheerful. Do you understand that--that his mind--his memory,
rather, is a little impaired?"

She lifted his hands and laid her soft lips against them:

"Will you take me to him, Duane?"

Colonel Mallett lay in the pale November sunlight, very still, his hands
folded on his breast. And at first she did not know him in this ghost of
the tall, well-built, gray-haired man with ruddy colour and firm, clear
skin.

As she bent over, he opened his eyes, smiled, pronounced her name, still
smiling and keeping his sunken eyes on her. They were filmy and bluish,
like the eyes of the very old; and the hand she lifted and held was the
stricken hand of age--inert, lifeless, without weight.

She said that she was so happy to know he was recovering; she told him
how proud everybody was of Duane, what exceptional talent he possessed,
how wonderfully he had painted Miller's children. She spoke to him of
Roya-Neh, and how interesting it had become to them all, told him about
the wild boar and her own mishaps with the guileful pig.

He smiled, watching her at times; but his wistful gaze always reverted
to his son, who sat at the foot of the couch, chin balanced between his
long, lean hands.

"You won't go, will you?" he whispered.

"Where, father?"

"Away."

"No, of course not."

"I mean with--Geraldine," he said feebly.

"If I did, father, we'd take you with us," he laughed.

"It is too far, my son.... You and Geraldine are going too far for me to
follow.... Wait a little while."

Geraldine, blushing, bent down swiftly, her lips brushing the sick
man's wasted face:

"I would not care for him if I could take him from you."

"Your father and I were old friends. Your grandfather was a very fine
gentleman.... I am glad.... I am a little tired--a little confused. Is
your grandfather here with you? I would like to see him."

She said, after a moment, in a low voice: "He did not come with me
to-day."

"Give him my regards and compliments. And say to him that it would be a
pleasure to see him. I am not very well; has he heard of my
indisposition?"

"I think he--has."

"Then he will come," said Colonel Mallett feebly. "Duane, you are not
going, are you? I am a little tired. I think I could sleep if you would
lower the shade and ask your mother to sit by me.... But you won't go
until I am asleep, will you?"

"No," he said gently, as his mother and Naïda entered and Geraldine rose
to greet them, shocked at the change in Mrs. Mallett.

She and Naïda went away together; later Duane joined them in the
library, saying that his father was asleep, holding fast to his wife's
hand.

Geraldine, her arm around Naïda's waist, had been looking at one of
Duane's pictures--the only one of his in the house--merely a stretch of
silvery marsh and a gray, wet sky beyond.

"Father liked it," he said; "that's why it's here, Geraldine."

"You never made one brush-stroke that was commonplace in all your life,"
said Geraldine abruptly. "Even I can see that."

"Such praise from a lady!" he exclaimed, laughing. Geraldine smiled,
too, and Naïda's pallid face lightened for a moment. But grief had set
its seal on the house of Mallett; that was plain everywhere; and when
Geraldine kissed Naïda good-bye and walked to the door beside her lover,
a passion of tenderness for him and his overwhelmed her, and when he put
her into her brougham she leaned from the lowered window, clinging to
his hand, careless of who might see them.

"Can I help in any way?" she whispered. "I told you that my fortune is
still my own--most of it----"

"Dear, wait!"

There was a strange look in his eyes; she said no more with her lips,
but her eyes told him all. Then he stepped back, directing Dunn to drive
his mistress to the Commonwealth Club, where she was to lunch with
Sylvia Quest, whom she had met that morning in the blockade at
Forty-second Street, and who had invited her from her motor across the
crupper of a traffic-policeman's horse.




CHAPTER XVIII

BON CHIEN


The chronology of that last dark and bitter week in November might have
been written "necrology."

On Monday Colonel Mallett died about sundown; on Wednesday the Hon. John
D. Ellis, while examining an automatic revolver in his bath-room, met
with one of those unfortunate and fatal accidents which sometimes happen
in times of great financial depression.

Thursday Amos Flack carelessly disappeared, leaving no address; and on
the last day of the week Emanuel Klawber politely excused himself to a
group of very solemn gentlemen who had been assisting him in the
well-known and popular game of "Hunt the Books"; and, stepping outside
the door of the director's office, carefully destroyed what little life
had not already been scared out of his three-hundred-pound person.

It had been raining all day; Dysart had not felt very well, and
Klawber's unpleasant performance made him ill. He stood in the rain
watching the ambulance arriving at a gallop, then, sickened, turned away
through the dark and dripping crowds, crossed the street, and, lowering
his head against the storm, drove both gloved hands deep into the
pockets of his fashionably cut rain-coat, and started for home.

It mattered nothing to him that several hard-working newspaper men might
desire to secure his version of Mr. Klawber's taking off, or of his
explanation for it or his sensations concerning it. It mattered nothing
to him that the afternoon papers reported the arrest of James Skelton,
or that Max Moebus had inadvertently, and no doubt in a moment of
intense abstraction, taken a steamer for Europe and the books of the
Shoshone Bank.

These matters, now seemed a great way off--too unreal to be of personal
moment. He was feeling sick; that occupied his mind. Also the slush on
the sidewalk had wet through his shoes, which probably was not good for
his cough.

It was scarcely two in the afternoon, yet there remained so little
daylight that the electricity burned in the shops along Fifth Avenue.
Through a smutty, grayish gloom, rain drove densely; his hat and
waterproof coat were heavy with it, the bottoms of his trousers soaked.

Passing the Patroons Club it occurred to him that hot whiskey might
extinguish his cough. The liveried servants at the door, in the
cloak-room--the page who took his order, the white-headed butler who had
always personally served him, and who served him now, all hesitated and
gazed curiously at him. He paid no attention at the time but remembered
it afterward.

For an hour he sat alone in the vast empty room before a fire of English
cannel coal, taking his hot whiskey and lemon in slow, absent-minded
gulps. Patches of deep colour lay flat under his cheek-bones, his sunken
abstracted eyes never left the coals.

The painted gaze of dead Presidents and Governors looked down at him
from their old-time frames ranged in stately ranks along the oaken
wainscot. Over the mantel the amazing, Hebraic countenance of a moose
leered at him out of little sly, sardonic little eyes, almost bantering
in their evil immobility.

He had presented the trophy to the club after a trip somewhere, leaving
the impression that he had shot it. He seldom looked at it, never at the
silver-engraved inscription on the walnut shield.

Strangely enough, now as he sat there, he thought of the trophy and
looked up at it; and for the first time in his life read the
inscription.

It made no visible impression upon him except that for a brief moment
the small and vivid patches of colour in his wasted cheeks faintly
tinted the general pallor. But this died out as soon as it appeared; he
drank deliberately, set the hot glass on a table at his elbow, long,
bony fingers still retaining a grip upon it.

And into his unconcentrated thoughts, strangely enough, came the
memories of little meannesses which he had committed--trivial things
that he supposed he had forgotten long ago; and at first, annoyed, he
let memory drift.

But, imperceptibly, from the shallows of these little long-forgotten
meannesses, memory drifted uncontrolled into deeper currents; and,
disdainful, he made no effort to control it; and later, could not. And
for the first time in his life he took the trouble to understand the
reason of his unpopularity among men. He had cared nothing for them.

He cared nothing for them now, unless that half tolerant, half
disdainful companionship of years with Delancy Grandcourt could be
called caring for a man. If their relations ever had been anything more
than a habit he did not know; on what their friendship had ever been
founded he could not tell. It had been his habit to take from Delancy,
accept, or help himself. He had helped himself to Rosalie Dene; and not
long ago he had accepted all that Delancy offered, almost convinced at
the time that it would disappear in the debacle when the Algonquin
crumbled into a rubbish heap of rotten securities.

A curious friendship--and the only friend he ever had had among
men--stupid, inertly at hand, as inevitably to be counted on as some
battered toy of childhood which escaped the dust heap so long that
custom tolerates its occupation of any closet space convenient: and
habit, at intervals, picks it up to see what's left of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had finished his whiskey; the fire seemed to have grown too hot, and
he shoved back his chair. But the room, too, was becoming close, even
stifling. Perspiration glistened on his forehead; he rose and began to
wander from room to room, followed always by the stealthy glances of
servants.

The sweat on his face had become unpleasantly cold; he came back to the
fire, endured it for a few moments, then, burning and shivering at the
same time, and preferring the latter sensation, he went out to his
letter-box and unlocked it. There was only one envelope there, a letter
from the governing board of the club requesting his resignation.

The possibility of such an event had never occurred to him; he read the
letter again, folded and placed it in his pocket, went back to the fire
with the idea of burning it, took it out, read it again, folded it
absently, and replaced it in his pocket.

At that time, except for the dull surprise, the episode did not seem to
affect him particularly. So many things had been accumulating, so many
matters had been menacing him, that one cloud more among the dark,
