greater luxuriousness. "You mean that the 
lady is not to be mentioned. That's of 
course. Whom have you got ?" 

"You for one, I suppose?" 

"My dear fellow, with the greatest pleasure." 



"And I will ask Cantire." 

"Cantire, no. He is under-secretary. A 
little matter of this kind always makes talk 
and that is displeasing in an embassy. Do 
you know Louradour?" 

Welden shook his head. 





Le Hillel stood up, balanced himself on 
his heels, then, with that tread which athletes 
share with panthers, he joined the two men 
who were pacing up and down and spoke to 
one of them. 

With a motion of apology to the other, 
the former turned with Le Hillel to where 
Welden was seated. 

As they approached, Welden arose. 

"Baron Louradour," said Le Hillel, 
"this is my friend and brother-in-arms M. 
Welden of New York. M. Welden has had 
an argument over By the way," he interrupted himself to ask. "What did you 
say it was about?" 

Welden, raising his hat in response to the 
baron's salutation, answered. "A door." 

"A door!" Le Hillel repeated. "That is a 
very dangerous topic." 

"Monsieur," said the baron, employing 
as he spoke an inflection which musically 
rose and fell, "we have here in France an 



 

adage with which doubtless you are familiar. 
It is that a door should be open or closed. 
Perhaps this one was neither " 

With that, in a gesture of complete ap 
preciation, the baron extended both hands. 
Though presumably fifty, he had the pink 
skin of a child, a smile of infinite indulgence, 
and a large, loose tie. 

"But permit me," he resumed. "Witk 
whom did this argument occur?" 

"With Malakoff." 

"And permit me, is he to send his seconds?" 

"No, I am to send mine." 

"That is to say," interrupted Le Hillel, 
"You and me, Baron, if you will do my 
friend that honour." 

"But how, then! It is your friend 
who honours me. Permit me once more. 
Your adversary has the choice of arms; 
and you, monsieur, have you any preference?" 





"Thanks," Welden answered, "anything 
but swords." 

Louradour smiled, displaying as he did 
so teeth small, even, white as white paper. 
It was obvious to him that that door had 
opened or closed on something extremely 
definite. 

"I see," he replied. "No child's play." 
Turning to Le Hillel he added: "M. 
de Malakoff resides I suppose in his avenue? Good. It would be discourteous to 
keep his friends waiting." Turning back to 
Welden he continued: "You will remain 
here? Good. In an hour at the latest. 
Meanwhile allow me to express all my pleasure at meeting an American who views matters as we do." 

Laughing and nodding, the two men 
passed on. 

Presently Welden got the club chasseur 
and sent nim with a five franc piece to buy 
a little cardboard box which cost two sous. 



 

"Keep the change," he said when the serv 
ant reappeared. 

Welden was lunching then. The meal 
concluded, he took out his watch from 
which hung the sapphire with its old French 
device: Aultre n auray None but you. 

The moderate irony of it mocked him. 
He detached it, put it in the box and going 
to the reading-room, wrapped, sealed and 
directed it to Miss Barhyte, in the care of 
her bankers, rue Scribe. Then, again requisitioning the chasseur, he sent him with 
another white piece to deliver it. 

"Finis!" he muttered with set teeth and 
for a while contemplated the epitaph. 

"Pardon. There are gentlemen who demand monsieur." 

Welden looked up. He had been far 
away, on the longest journey that a mortal 
can take, into the depths of the irreparable. 
It was the colossal lackey that had addressed him. Rising, he followed the man 





into the hall where Le Hillel and Louradour 
waited. 

"To-morrow at eight," the former announced. "Baron Louradour has obligingly 
arranged to have the meeting take place at 
the residence of M. de Ponthieu, his father- 
in-law." 

"You are really too good," said Welden, 

The baron bowed. "It is nothing, nothing at all. M. de Ponthieu is with my family at the waters. And let us see. Yes. It 
is foils." 

He smiled, patted his tie and added: 
"You will excuse me, my dear sir, will you 
not? Till to-morrow." 

"Deuced nice of him too," said Le Hillel 
when he had gone. "We might have had to 
go to Neuilly. His father-in-law's place is 
five minutes from your hotel. I will stop 
by for you in the morning. And now, what 
is the programme?" 

Welden lit a cigarette. "Later, if you 



 

like, I will have a bout with you. Then we 
might dine somewhere and I will go to bed 
early." 

Approvingly Le Hillel nodded. Welden 
was a man after his own heart, a man sure 
of himself, one who had no intention of 
writing letters, of making a will or even a 
night of it, a virtuoso who knew that the 
wrist of a swordsman is as sensitive as that 
of a violinist. 



VIII 
THE DUEL 

The morning broke darkly. When Weiden reached the street the sky was heaped with clouds sulphurous and evil. To the 
thin thunder of metal shutters a lout, across 
the way, was opening a shop. Beyond, two 
Percherons, harnessed to a high white cart, 
snorted their ennui. At the curb, in a motor, 
was Le Hillel. With him was a little man 
in a tall hat, who held a bag on his knees. 

"Hello!" Le Hillel threw out. "Hop in. 
Be careful." As he spoke he indicated a 
long green bundle that lay at his feet. 
"Avenue Gabriel," he called at the chauffeur. 

"Do you remember Sarcey?" he presently resumed as the motor flew up the street. 
"On a morning a bit worse than this he had 



 

an affair which he insisted on conducting 
under an umbrella. I may be winged, the 
old idiot declared, but I refuse to catch 
cold. How did you sleep? This is Dr. 
Meyer." 

The machine now had turned into the rue 
de Rivoli. Scudding on, it crossed the fountained Place and shortly stopped in the 
briefest and most seigneurial of Parisian 
avenues. 

Before them, a great double doorway 
opened slowly, with respect. Above it was 
a stone arch in which a blazon had been cut. 
On either side was a vast, white wall. With 
in was a vista of trees, large urns, marble 
benches. Beyond was a tennis court, farther 
away a house. In the damp, fresh air, a 
scent of roses and acacias clung. Over all 
was a brooding quiet, the splendid disdain 
of nature for the imbecile activity of man. 

Simultaneously with the motor, a crimson 
touring car flew up. From it descended 





Malakoff, Aquaviva, Saraguine and a man 
also in a high hat, also with a bag who, as 
the others saluted, exchanged with Dr. Meyer a professional smile. 

Without speaking all passed in and slowly, respectfully, the great doors closed. On 
each side a servant in brown was stationed. 
A step beyond stood Louradour. 

He raised his hat. "Gentlemen, I salute 
you." As the others raised their hats, he 
added: "It may rain. If preferred, we 
can get under cover." 

Saraguine, withdrawing a glove, stretched 
his hand horizontally and looked at the sky. 

"A little mist," he announced. "It is 
nothing." 

"Good," Louradour rejoined. "There is 
then nothing to detain us and no better place 
than the court over there. You have the 
foils, Le Hillel?" 

For answer the green bundle was displayed. 



 

At once, with the French observance of 
what is correct or, more exactly, of what is 
so considered, gravely, dumbly, in two detachments, the eight men proceeded to the 
tennis court where four of them, gathering 
together, consulted. 

Welden took off his coat and waistcoat 
and tossed them on a bench. He undid his 
collar, opened his shirt, rolled up a sleeve 
and was rolling the other when he paused, 
arrested by a remark overheard. 

"I say, Le Hillel," he called. "What is 
all that about Aquaviva's holding a stick 
within reach of our foils? To prevent an accident, is it? Well then, be good enough to 
say that I will submit to nothing of the kind. 
I am not here to learn how to fence. It was 
for a thing of this sort that I did learn." 

Welden spoke in English which Aquaviva 
did not understand and which Saraguine 
who was talking to Louradour did not hear. 

Malakoff heard. 





The remark, perfectly audible to him, 
equally intelligible, carried a significance of 
its own. He knew that Welden could ride, 
he took it for granted that he could shoot, 
that he could handle a sword was, he had 
thought, within the range of possibilities, 
but that he could fence had never occurred 
to him. It was for that reason he had chosen 
foils. A poke in the ribs and easily, in no 
time, he had fancied he would be done with 
him. These ideas aiding and fortified more 
over by two good seconds, he had come to 
this meeting, as he had gone to others, with 
out the shadow of a preoccupation, with the 
view merely to the transaction of an entirely 
formal and tiresome affair. 

Now, however, at the remark and at the 
sight of the man bare-necked, bare-armed, 
supple and vigorous, looking very much 
alive and equally deadly, the ideas he had 
had evaporated, his rank fell from him like 
a cloak, his titles like bits of armour, and in 



 

that nakedness, he shivered. Before him 
surged the abrupt apparition of death. 

For one moment, that apparition, the in 
struments, bands, compresses, antiseptics 
enough for an ambulance which Dr. Mey 
er and his colleague were taking from their 
bags, grotesquely but poignantly maintained. 

Then at once, the cultivated sentiment of 
form came, asserted itself, rescued him. 
With that air which he could assume, that 
appearance of being surrounded by lackeys 
ready, at a gesture, to shut the door in any 
one's face, he took off his coat, undid his 
collar, rolled up his sleeves. That done, he 
looked again at Welden who was looking at 
him. 

"I will see what he knows," Welden was 
thinking. "Then, in two minutes, Bon jour !" 

Concerning himself he had that entire ab 
sence of apprehension which comes to some 
men from confidence, to others from indifference. Both left him as much at ease as 
though he were about to play polo. 

Aquaviva, meanwhile, who had unwilling 
ly yielded to the objection which Le Hill el 
transmitted, but who had tossed with him 
for the choice of arms and place, approached 
now with the foils which he offered, first to 
Malakoff, whom he stationed fronting the 
arch of the entrance, and then to Welden 
who, in facing Malakoff, faced also the 
house. Yet, as there was no sun, the advantage to either was negligible. 

"Are you ready?" Saraguine asked. 

Welden felt the point of his steel. It was 
sharp as a needle. He advanced toward 
Malakoff and both fell into position. 

"On guard!" the prince called. "Go!" 

The foils, united for an instant at the ends 
by Le Hillel, now were seeking each other, 
crossing, clashing, functioning with light 
movements of the wrist. 

Welden, taller than Malakoff, perfectly 



 

trained, perfectly tranquil, maintained the 
athlete's easy poise and, while his wrist 
moved, looked pitilessly at his adversary. 
As yet however he attempted nothing decisive. His parries, effected always in the 
smallest possible circle, were as clean, rapid 
and precise as though, with a buttoned foil 
before him, he were on the boards, in an ordinary bout. But in parrying merely, he 
forced Malakoff to show his hand, to tell 
what he knew, to expose the varieties of his 
play. 

These were of the school, classic but not 
brilliant, and Malakoff, at the sight of those 
circles, at the sight of that steel which, when 
not describing them, advanced and returned 
in a line almost geometrically straight, saw 
that he had to deal not only with a swords 
man but with a swordsman of the very first 
class. On the part of an American he had 
counted on nothing of the kind. At the 
evidence of it his sense of nudity increased. 





He felt not only wholly naked but horribly 
insecure. The episode which he had regarded as an entirely formal and tiresome affair 
had rapidly assumed the proportions of an 
assassination. 

"Halt!" cried Saraguine. 

Malakoff was livid. Visibly he perspired, 
audibly he panted and on his forearm was 
a thin red line. 

"You are touched," the prince added. 

The wound was examined. It was but a 
scratch and so slight that it did not require 
even to be staunched. 

Welden, in an undertone, said with a 
smile to Le Hillel: "I know him now. In a 
moment I will pin a carnation in his 
shirt. 

Thoughtlessly while speaking, he had 
rested the point of the foil on the ground. 
Dr. Meyer approached and tenderly with 
a little sponge disinfected it. 

"On guard!" Saraguine called and, as 



 

the two men fell into position again, again 
he called: "Go." 

The foils met as before. Malakoff, to 
hide the nakedness of his debility, masked 
himself behind the hilt, and parried only 
until after a counter-disengage from quatre 
to tierce, not finding Welden's blade, he 
lunged. But the foil, manoeuvred by an 
other and surer hand than his, deflected. 
An unawaited riposte touched him on the 
breast and, as he backed from the prick, a 
return sudden and violent ran him through 
the throat. 

Before him, the double doors, the blazoned 
arch, the high white wall, soared in the air. 
They came to him, fell on him, bore him 
down. From under him the earth slid gently. The savour of something acrid filled his 
mouth. Above him were peering faces and 
fluttering hands. These blankly fainted. 
In that early morning it was night. 

Welden looked at the prostrate form and 





nodded at it. From the street beyond there 
floated a cry, trailing and musical, the call of 
an itinerant offering to repair broken porcelain. Otherwise in the silence of the fragrant 
garden there was all of nature's unconcern 
for the idiot agitations of man. 

Save Welden, every one, Dr. Meyer included, had got about Malakoff. Welden, 
who could see of him now but the veneered 
sole of a shoe, stuck his foil under his arm 
and went, buttoning his shirt on the way, to 
the bench where he had tossed his coat. The 
tableau behind him differed not at all from 
one that he had seen on the train. It was an 
old acquaintance and he nodded once 
more. 

At the bench he put the foil down and, 
getting a cigarette from his coat, lighted it. 

Springingly Le Hillel approached. He 
had with him the long green bag in which 
now was the other foil. 

"You are wounded!" he exclaimed. 



 

Welden, expelling a puff of smoke into 
the damp, sweet air, stared at him. 

"I never was better in my life." 

"But look at yourself." 

Welden did look. Beneath his left arm 
his shirt was red. He laughed. 

"That comes from the foil, from my foil. 
Here, take it and put it with the other one." 

In a moment he had his coat on, his collar 
and neckcloth readjusted. 

"Where is my stick?" he asked. 

"Your stick? In the motor probably. 
Shall we go?" 

But now Louradour, detaching himself 
from the others, advanced. He looked at 
Welden. 

"Monsieur, I may compliment you and 
reassure you also. M. de Mai " 

"Is he alive?" Welden, strangling an 
oath, threw out. 

Louradour, pressing together a thumb 
and forefinger, exhibited them. 





"By that much! The carotid artery just 
escaped. Allons! So much the better. In 
no time, in three weeks, he will be on his 
feet." 

Silently Welden cursed. But Loura- 
dour's thumb and forefinger had separated, 
a hand was extended which Welden shook, 
and then, with Le Hillel, he passed on 
through the slowly opening doors to the 
purring car without. 

"There's your stick," said Le Hillel as 
they reached it. 

Welden looked at the sky. "It's raining," he announced. 

"What do you care?" said Le Hillel as 
both got into the machine and he called: 
"Rue de la Paix." 

"Personally, not a rap," Welden answered. "But I race to-day at Chantilly. 
If it keeps on it may interfere with the 
others." 

Le Hillel considered him admiringly. 



 

"Gourmand!" he cried. "This morning you 
nearly killed a man, this afternoon you will 
nearly kill a horse. That's fine, very 
fine." 

Welden shrugged his shoulders. To 
change the subject he asked: "What became 
of the little chap?" 

"Meyer! Good Lord! I forgot the poor 
devil. After I drop you, I ll go back for 
him. By the way, his fee is fifty francs. 
Malakoff's man will come higher. Did you 
notice that he was decorated? That means 
a hundred." 

"Yes, confound it; and he ll earn it. I 
thought I had spared him that. If I had 
known in time I believe I would have fin 
ished his client as he lay there." 

Le Hillel laughed. "No, you wouldn't, 
and, anyway, we would not have let you. 
Besides, why be so bloodthirsty? You 
fought like a god, now you will ride like 
a demon. I would give a red pippin to see 





you. By George ! I would give two of them, 
only" 

"Only what?" 

With a little modest air Le Hillel pulled 
at his cuff. 

"A lady is to lunch with me." 

"Here's the fifty," said Welden, who 
meanwhile had got the money out. 

Le Hillel pocketed it. "Shall I see you 
to-morrow?" 

There are morrows that never dawn. 
What is more notable, there are men who 
know they will not. But Welden nodded 
and shortly, when the car stopped again at 
his hotel, he thanked Le Hillel, who whirled 
away. 




After one blue brief moment, the forenoon died, suffocated with clouds. The 
agony of the day melted into rain. The 
drops, thin and hurried, fell in sheets, draping the trees with humid fringes, pouring 
their melancholy on Chantilly's sandy soil 
and, as Welden, in breeches and boots, drove 
up from the station, they added a dreariness 
of their own to the dreariness that was his. 

To greet him came the pungent odour of 
stables, the clean smell of wet turf. He had 
too a glimpse of dripping ostlers, the vista 
of a vacant lawn, of a miniature tribune and 
of a course, punctuated by fences that circled the grounds. But, in lieu of the care 
less women, the careful men, the line of 
drags, carriages and cars that ordinarily 





would have been there, there was but gloom. 
Instead of clattering hoofs, ripples of laugh 
ter and mounting cries, there was silence and 
the falling rain. 

At the perron of a gaunt, grey house, ugly 
and comfortable, the cab stopped. As Weiden got out, there flew up a covered motor 
from which Cantire and another man 
alighted. 

Cantire, like Welden, was in riding dress. 

"Hello!" he cried. "Rather rotten, isn't 
it?" Indicating his companion he added: 
"You know Lord Ferrers?" 

"Met you at Melton," said the latter, advancing toward Welden, his hand outstretched. 

He was tall, slim, very fair. He wore a 
monocle and spoke with a slight stutter. 

Welden, recalling some incident, mentioned it and both laughed. Meanwhile the 
door opened. All three passed into a hall 
where immediately de Dol appeared. 



 

"But!" the Frenchman, in French, exclaimed. "What good wind brings youl 
You received my dispatch?" he continued, 
looking as he spoke from Welden's boots to 
Cantire's breeches. "The race is postponed. 
Kara Saraguine and Aquaviva telegraphed 
yesterday asking me to put it off. Thinking you would agree I wired you both at 
Deauville." 

"To the Villa Portugaise?" said Cantire. 
"It's closed. The duchess chucked the 
whole thing. Why, I haven't an idea. 
Have you?" he asked, turning to Welden. 

"Not the faintest." 

"Of course not. How should you? I remember now, you went up to Paris the day 
before. There must have been the deuce of 
a row. Malakoff took the first train yesterday. Aquaviva and Saraguine went with 
him, I believe, but the rest of us straggled 
on at noon." 

"You were saying?" intervened de Dol, 





whom the conversation, carried on in English, had left in the dark. "But, I pray you, 
come this way." 

Moving aside he motioned them into a 
room hung with etchings and photographs 
of sporting scenes and horses. There was a 
table there, a divan, several straight-backed 
chairs and the frame of a horse, wooden and 
articulated. 

"You were saying?" he repeated. 

Cantire, in French, summarised the mat 
ter for him. 

De Dol raised his hands. "But! It is un 
believable! There, one would say, was a 
household veritably united. I did not grasp 
why these gentlemen wired, yet it could not 
have been because of what you tell me, nor 
could they have foreseen the rain. Have 
you seen them since?" 

Cantire shook his head. He had straddled the wooden horse. Lord Ferrers was 
on the divan, Welden on a chair. 



 

De Dol turned. "Have you, Monsieur 
Welden?" 

Welden nodded. 

"And they said nothing about the race?" 

"Nothing." 

"It is unbelievable!" 

"They could not very well," Welden resumed. "I was having a word with Mala- 
koff and they were acting for him." 

"The deuce!" cried Cantire, sliding from 
the horse. "A duel! And you not even 
pinked!" 

He laughed. The idea of it pleased him. 
His grandfather was a duke, a real one, a 
stately old man with a head empty but 
noble. Whether on that account or for 
other reasons is immaterial, but he had 
always thought Malakoff a mucker. It was 
not on his account he had gone to Deauville. 
It was for Sally. 

"But!" exclaimed de Dol, his mouth 
agape. A little panorama was unfolding 





before him Welden and Sally surprised 
in amorous conversation by Sally's husband. 
"And Malakoff ?" 

"He will be all right shortly." 

As Welden spoke, de Dol bowed slowly to 
an advancing understanding of it all. Malakoff's seconds, aware of the conversation 
and foreseeing that for at least one of the 
principals the duel would be damaging had, 
for that reason, asked that the race be post 
poned. 

"All the same," he affably rejoined, "It 
was most amiable of you to come. When it 
rains one's friends are doubly welcome." 

Welden turned to Cantire. "Are you 
afraid of a wetting?" 

"Good Lord, no, why?" 

"Our horses are here, if we don't race now 
we won't race at all. I will back myself 
against you. I will back myself against 
Ferrers too, if he will. M. de Dol can give 
him a mount." 



 

"Done," said Cantire. "Let's make it a 
fiver." 
