Corydon the lines of the outlaw's song 

"The fiend whose lantern lights the mead 
Were better mate than I!" 



BOOK XVI 
THE BREAK FOR FREEDOM 



The scarlet flush of morning was in the sky; and 
they stood upon the hill again, and watched the color 
spreading. 

"We must go," she was saying. "But it was worth- 
while to come" 

"It was all worth-while," he said "all!" 

And she smiled, and quoted some lines from the 
poem 

"Thou too Thyrsis, on like quest wast bound; 
Thou wanderedst with me for a little hour! 

Men gave thee nothing; but this happy quest, 
If men esteemed thee feeble, gave thee power, 

If men procured thee trouble, gave thee rest!" 



1. THIS illness of the baby's had been a fearful 
drain upon their strength ; and Thyrsis perceived that 
they had now got to a point where they could no longer 
stand alone. There must be a servant in the house, to 
help Corydon, and do for the baby what had to be done. 
It was a hard decision for him to face, for his money 
was almost gone, and the book loomed larger than ever. 
But there was no escaping the necessity. 

They would get a married couple, they decided 
the man could pay for himself by working the farm. 
So they put an advertisement in a city paper, and pe- 
rused the scores of mis-spelled replies. After due cor- 
respondence, and much consultation, they decided upon 
Patrick and Mary Flanagan ; and Thyrsis hired a two- 
seated carriage and drove in to meet them at the depot. 

It was all very funny ; years afterwards, when the 
clouds of tragedy were dispersed, they were able to 
laugh over the situation. Thyrsis had been used to 
servants in boyhood, but that was before he had ac- 
quired any ideas as to universal brotherhood and the 
rights of man. Now he hated all the symbols and symp- 
toms of mastership ; he shrunk from any sort of clash 
with unlovely personalities he would be courteous and 
deprecating to the very tramp who came to his door 
to beg. And here were Patrick and Mary, very Irish, 
enormously stout, and devotedly Roman Catholic, hav- 
ing spent all their lives as caretakers of "gentlemen's 
country-places". They had most precise ideas as to 
what gentlemen's country-places should be, and how 



they should be equipped, and how the gentlemen of the 
country-places should treat their servants. And need- 
less to say, they found nothing in this new situation 
which met with their approval. There were signs of 
humiliating poverty everywhere, and the farm-outfit 
was inadequate. As to the master and mistress, they 
must have been puzzling phenomena for Patrick and 
Mary to make up their minds about possessing so 
many of the attributes of the lady and gentleman, and 
yet being lacking in so many others ! 

Patrick was a precise and particular person ; he 
wanted his work laid out just so, and then he would do 
it without interference. As for Mary he stood in awe 
of Mary himself, and so he accepted the idea that Cory- 
don and Thyrsis should stand in awe of her too. Mary 
it was who announced that their dietary was inadequate ; 
she took no stock at all in Fletcher and Chittenden 
she knew that working-people must have meat at least 
four times a week. Also Mary maintained that their 
room was not large enough for so stout a couple. Also 
she arranged it that Corydon and Thyrsis should get 
the dinner on Sundays the Roman Catholic church 
being five miles away, and the hour of mass being late, 
and the horse very old and slow. 

For two months Corydon and Thyrsis struggled 
along under the dark and terrible shadow of the disap- 
proval of the Flanagan family. Then one day there 
came a violent crisis between Corydon and Mary oc- 
casioned by a discussion of the effect of an excess of 
grease upon the digestibility of potato-starch. Cory- 
don fled in tears to her husband, who started for the 
kitchen forthwith, meaning to dispose of the Flana- 
gans ; when, to his vast astonishment, Corydon experi- 
enced one of her surges of energy, and thrust him to 



 

one side, and striding out upon the field of combat, 
proceeded to deliver herself of her pent-up sentiments. 
It was a discourse in the grandest style of tragedy, 
and Mary Flanagan was quite dumbfounded appar- 
ently this was a "lady" after all! So the Flanagan 
family packed its belongings and departed in a chas- 
tened frame of mind ; and Corydon turned to her spouse, 
her eyes still flashing, and remarked, "If only I had 
talked to her that way from the beginning!" 

2. THEN once more there was answering of ad- 
vertisements, and another couple was spewed forth from 
the maw of the metropolis "Henery and Bessie 
Dobbs", as they subscribed themselves. "Henery" 
proved to be the adult stage of tke East Side "gamin" ; 
lean and cynical, full of slang and humor and the odor 
of cigarettes. He was fresh from a "ticket-chopper's" 
job in the subway, and he knew no more about farming 
than Thyrsis did; but he put up a clever "bluff", and 
was so prompt with his wits that it was hard to find 
fault with him successfully. As for his wife, she had 
come out of a paper-box factory, and was as skilled at 
housekeeping as her husband was at agriculture ; she 
was frail and consumptive, and told Corydon the story 
of her pitiful life, with the result that she was able to 
impose upon her even more than her predecessor had 
done. 

"Henery" was slow at pitching hay and loading 
stone, but when the season came, he developed a genius 
for peddling fruit ; he was always hungry for any sort 
of chance to bargain, and was forever coming upon 
things which Thyrsis ought to buy. Very quickly the 
neighborhood discovered this propensity of his, and 
there was a constant stream of farmers who came to 



 

offer second-hand buggies, and wind-broken horses, and 
dried-up cows, and patent hay-rakes and churns and 
corn-shellers at reduced values ; all of which rather 
tended to reveal to Thyrsis the unlovely aspects of his 
neighbors, and to weaken his faith in the perfectibility 
of the race. 

Among Henery's discoveries was a pair of aged and 
emaciated mules. He became eloquent as to how he 
could fatten up these mules and what crops he 
could raise in the spring. So Thyrsis bought the 
mules, and also a supply of feed; but the fattening 
process failed to take effect for the reason, as Thyr- 
sis finally discovered, that the mules were in need of 
new teeth. When the plowing season began, Henery at 
first expended a vast amount of energy in beating the 
creatures with a stick, but finally he put his inventive 
genius to work, and devised a way to drive them without 
beating. It was some time before Thyrsis noted the 
change ; when he made inquiries, he learned to his con- . 
sternation that the ingenious Henery had fixed up the 
stick with a pin in the end ! 

At any time of the day one might stand upon the 
piazza of the house and gaze out across the corn-field, 
and see a long procession marching through the furrow. 
First there came the mules, and then came the plow, and 
then came Henery ; and after Henery followed the dog, 
and after the dog followed the baby, and after the 
baby followed a train of chickens, foraging for worms. 
Little Cedric was apparently content to trot back 
and forth in the field for hours ; which to his much- 
occupied parents seemed a delightful solution of a prob- 
lem. But it happened one day when they had a visit 
from Mr. Harding, that Thyrsis and the clergy- 
man came round the side of the house, and discovered 



 

the child engaged in trying to drag a heavy arm-chair 
through a door that was too small for it. He was 
wrestling like a young titan, purple in the face with 
rage; and shouting, in a perfect reproduction of 
Henery's voice and accent, "Come round here, God 
damn you, come round here!" 

There were many such drawbacks to be balanced 
against the joys of "life on a farm". Thyrsis re- 
flected with a bitter smile that his experiences and 
Corydon's had been calculated to destroy their illusions 
as to several kinds of romance. They had tried "Grub 
Street", and the poet's garret, and the cultivating of 
literature upon a little oatmeal; they had not found 
that a joyful adventure. They had tried the gypsy 
style of existence; they had gone back "to the bosom 
of nature" and had found it a cold and stony bosom. 
They had tried out "love in a cottage", and the story- 
writer's dream of domestic raptures. And now they 
were chasing another will o' the wisp that of "amateur 
farming" ! When Thyrsis had purchased half the old 
junk in the township, and had seen the mules go lame, 
and the cows break into the pear-orchard and "founder" 
themselves ; when he had expended two hundred dollars' 
worth of money and two thousand dollars' worth of 
energy to raise one hundred dollars' worth of vege- 
tables and fruit, he framed for himself the conclusion 
that a farm is an excellent place for a literary man, 
provided that he can be kept from farming it. 

3. As the result of such extravagances, when 
they had got as far as the month of February, Thyrsis' 
bank-account had sunk to almost nothing. However, 
he had been getting ready for this emergency ; he had 
prepared a scenario of his new book, setting forth the 



 

ideas it would contain and the form which it would take. 
This he sent to his publisher, with a letter saying 
that he wanted the same contract and the same advance 
as before. 

And again he waited in breathless suspense. He knew 
that he had here a work of vital import, one that would 
be certain to make a sensation, even if it did not sell 
like a novel. It was, to be sure, a radical book per- 
haps the most radical ever published in America ; but 
on the other hand, it dealt with questions of literature 
and philosophy, where occasionally even respectable and 
conservative reviews permitted themselves to dally with 
ideas. Thyrsis was hoping that the publisher might 
see prestige and publicity in the adventure, and decide 
to take a chance ; when this proved to be the case, he 
sank back with a vast sigh of relief. He had now money 
enough to last until midsummer, and by that time the 
book would be more* than half done and also the farm 
would be paying. 

But alas, it seemed with them that strokes of calamity 
always followed upon strokes of good fortune. At this 
time Corydon's ailments became acute, and her nervous 
crises were no longer to be borne. There were anxious 
consultations on the subject, and finally it was decided 
that she should consult another "specialist". This was 
an uncle of Mr. Harding's, a man of most unusual 
character, the clergyman declared ; the latter was going 
to the city, and would be glad to introduce Cory don. 

So, a couple of days later came to Thyrsis a letter, 
conveying the tidings that she was discovered to be 
suffering from an abdominal tumor, and should un- 
dergo an immediate operation. It would cost a hun- 
dred dollars, and the hospital expenses would be at 
least as much; which meant that, with the bill-paying 



 

that had already taken place, their money would all be 
gone at the outset ! 

But Thyrsis did not waste any time in lamenting the 
inevitable. He was rather glad of the tidings, on the 
whole at least there was a definite cause for Corydon's 
suffering, and a prospect of an end to it. Both of 
them had still their touching faith in doctors and sur- 
geons, as speaking with final and godlike authority 
upon matters beyond the comprehension of the ordinary 
mind. The operation would not be dangerous, Cory- 
don wrote, and it would make a new woman of her. 

"If I could only have Delia Gordon with me," she 
added, "then my happiness would be complete. Only 
think of it, she left for Africa last week! I know she 
would have waited, if she'd known about this. 

"However, I shall make out. Mr. Harding is going 
to be in town for more than a week he is attending 
a conference of some sort, and he has promised to 
come and see me in the hospital. I think he likes to do 
such things he has the queerest professional air about 
it, so that you feel you are being sympathized with 
for the glory of God. But really he is very beautiful 
and good, and I think you have never appreciated him. 
I am happy to-day, almost exhilarated ; I feel as if 
I were about to escape from a dungeon." 

4. SUCH was the mood in which she went to her 
strange experience. She liked the hospital-room, tiny, 
but immaculately clean ; she liked the nurses, who seemed 
to her to be altogether superior and exemplary beings 
moving with such silence and assurance about their 
various tasks. She slept soundly, and in the morning 
they combed and plaited her hair and prepared her for 
the ceremony. There came a bunch of roses to her 



 

room, with a card from Mr. Harding; and these were 
exquisite, and made her happy, so that, when the doctor 
arrived, she went almost gaily to the operating-room. 

Everything there aroused her curiosity ; the pure 
white walls and ceiling, shining with matchless clean- 
ness, the glittering instruments arranged carefully on 
glass tables, the attentive and pleasant-faced nurses, 
standing also in pure white, and the doctor in his vest- 
ments, smiling reassuringly. In the centre of the room 
was a large glass table, long enough for a reclining 
body, and through the sky-light the sun poured a pleas- 
ing radiance over all. "How beautiful!" exclaimed 
Corydon ; and the nurses exchanged glances, and the 
old doctor failed to hide an expression of surprise. 

"I wish all my patients felt like that," said he. 
"Now climb up on the table." 

Corydon promptly did so, and another doctor who 
was to administer the anaesthetic came to her side. 
"Take a very deep breath, please," he said, as he placed 
over her mouth a white, cone-shaped thing that had a 
rather suffocating odor. Corydon was obedience itself, 
and breathed. 

In a moment her body seemed to be falling from her. 
"Oh, I don't like it !" she gasped. 

"Breathe deeply, and count as far as you can," came 
a voice from far above her. 

"Stop !" whispered Corydon. "Oh, I don't want 
I want to come back !" 

Then she began to count or rather some strange 
voice, not hers, seemed to count for her ; as the first 
numbness passed, farther and farther away she seemed 
to dissolve, to become a disembodied consciousness poised 
in a misty ether. And at that moment so she told 
Thyrsis afterwards the face of Mr. Harding seemed 



 

to appear just above her, and to look at her with a 
pained and startled expression. It was a beautiful face, 
she thought ; and she knew that everything she felt 
was being immediately registered in Mr. Harding's 
mind. They were two affinitized beings, suspended in 
the centre of a cosmos ; their soul intelligences were all 
that had been left of the sentient world after some 
cataclysm. 

"I always knew that about us," thought Corydon, 
and she realized that the face before her understood, 
even though at the moment it, too, was dissolving. "I 
wonder why" -she mused "why ' And then the 
little spark went out. 

Two hours later the doctor was bending over her, 
anxiously scrutinizing her passive face. "Nurse, bring 
me some ice-water," he was saying. "She takes her time 
coming to." And sharply he struck her cheek and fore- 
head with his finger-tips ; but she showed no sign. 

Deep down in some mysterious inner chamber, be- 
neath the calm face, there was being enacted a grim 
spirit-drama. Corydon's soul was making a monstrous 
effort to return to its habitation ; Corydon felt herself 
hanging, a tortured speck of being, in a dark and 
illimitable void. "This may be Hell," she thought. "I 
have neither hands nor feet, and I cannot fight; but I 
can will to get back !" This effort cost her inexpressible 
agony. 

A strange incessant throbbing was going on in the 
black pit over which she seemed suspended. It had a 
kind of rhythm metallic, and yet with a human reso- 
nance. It began way down somewhere, and proceeded 
with maddening accuracy to ascend through the semi- 
tones of a gigantic scale. Each beat was agony to 
her ; it ascended to a certain pitch in merciless crescendo, 



 

then fell to the bottom again, and began anew its swift, 
maddeningly accurate ascent. Each time it ascended 
a little higher, and always straining her endurance to 
the uttermost, and bringing a more vivid realization of 
agony. "Will you stop here," it seemed to pulsate. 
"No, no, I will go on," willed Corydon. "You shall 
not keep me, I must escape, I must get out." But it 
kept up incessantly, ruthlessly, its strange, formless, 
soundless din, until the spirit writhed in its grasp. 

Finally it seemed to Corydon that she was getting 
nearer nearer to something, she knew not what. The 
blackness about her seemed to condense, and she found 
herself in what was apparently the middle of a lake, 
and some dark bodies with arms were trying to drag 
her down. "No, no," she willed to these forms, "you 
shall not. I do not belong here, I belong up up !" 
And by a violent effort she escaped into sensations yet 
more agonizing, more acute. The vibrations were get- 
ting faster and faster, whirling her along, stretching 
her consciousness to pieces. "Will it never end?" she 
thought. "Have mercy !" But after an eternity of 
such repetition, she found a bright light staring at her, 
and a frightful sense of heaviness, like mountains piled 
upon her. Also, eating her up from head to foot, was 
a strange, unusual pain ; yes, it must be pain, though 
she had never felt anything like it before. She moaned ; 
and there came a spasm of nausea, that seemed to tear 
her asunder. 

The doctor was standing by her. "She gave me quite 
a fright," he was saying. "There, that's it, nurse. 
She'll be sleeping sweetly in a minute." The nurse 
hurried forward, and Corydon felt a stinging sensa- 
tion in her side, and then a delightful numbness crept 
over her. "Oh, thank you, doctor," she whispered. 



 

5. THE next week held for Corydon continuous 
suffering, which she bore with a rebellious defiance 
feeling that she had been betrayed in some way. "If 
you had only told me," she wailed, to the doctor. "I 
would rather have stayed as I was before !" For answer 
he would pat her cheek and tell her to go to sleep. 

The days dragged on. Every afternoon her mother 
came and read to her for several hours ; and in the 
afternoons Mr. Harding would come, and sit by her 
bedside in his kind way and talk to her. Sometimes he 
only stayed a few minutes, but often he would spend 
an hour or so, trying to dispel the clouds of gloom and 
despondency that were hanging over her. Corydon 
told him of her vision in the operating-room, and 
strange to say he declared that he had known it all; 
also he said that he had helped her to fight her way 
back to life. 

He seemed to understand her every need, and from 
his sympathy gave her all the comfort he could. But 
he little realized all that it meant to her how deeply 
it stirred her gratitude and her liking for him. During 
the day she would find herself counting the hours until 
the time he had named ; and when the expected knock 
would come, and his tall figure appear at the door, her 
heart would give a sudden jump and send the blood 
rushing to her head. Her lips would tremble slightly 
as she held out her hand to him ; and as he sat and 
looked at her, she would become uncomfortably con- 
scious of the beating of her heart ; in fact at times it 
would almost suffocate her, and her cheeks would be- 
come as fire. 

She wondered if he noticed it. But he seemed con- 
cerned only for her welfare, and anxiously inquired 
how she ielt. She was not doing well, it seemed, and 



 

the doctor was greatly troubled; her temperature had 
not become normal since the operation, and they could 
not account for it, as she was suffering no more than 
the usual amount of pain. To Corydon this was a 
matter of no importance ; she was willing to lie there 
all day, if only the hour of Mr. Hoarding's visit would 
come more quickly. She was beginning to be alarmed 
because she had such difficulty in controlling her ex- 
citement. 

The magic hour would strike, and the door of hop* 
open, and there upon the threshold he would appear, 
in all his superb manhood. Corydon thought she had 
never before met a man who gave her such an impression 
of vitality. He was splendid; he was like a young 
Viking, who brought into the room with him the pure 
air of the Northern mountains. When he looked at 
her, his eyes assumed a wonderful expression, a "golden" 
expression, as Corydon described it to herself. And 
day after day she clothed this Viking in more lustrous 
garments, woven from the threads of her imagination, 
her innermost desires and her dreams. And always at 
sight of him, her heart beat faster, her head became 
hotter ; until the bed she lay upon became a bed of 
burning coals. She realized at last what had happened 
to her, that she loved yes, that she loved! But she 
must not let her Viking see it ; that would be unpardon- 
able, it would damn her forever in his sight. And so 
she struggled with her secret. At night she slept in 
fitful starts, and in the morning she lay pale and 
sombre. But when he came she was all brilliancy and 
animation. 

6. EACH night the doctor would look anxiously 
at his thermometer ; it was a source of great worry 



 

to him and to Corydon's parents that the fever 
did not abate. Also, needless to say, the news worried 
Thyrsis ; all the more, because it meant a long stay in 
the hospital, and more of their money gone. At last 
he came up to town to see about it; and Corydon 
thought to herself, "This is very wrong of me. It is 
Thyrsis I ought to be interested in, it is his sympathy 
I ought to be craving." 

She brought the image of Thyrsis before her; it 
seemed vagu'e and unreal. She found that she remem- 
bered mostly the unattractive aspects of him. And this 
brought a pang to her. "He is good and noble," she 
told herself; she forced herself to think of generous 
things that he had done. 

He came ; and then she felt still more ashamed. He 
had been working very hard, and was pale and haggard ; 
it was becoming to him to be that way. Recollections 
came back to her in floods ; yes, he was truly good and 
noble ! 

He sat by her bedside, and she told him about the 
operation, and poured out the hunger of her soul to 
him. He stayed all the morning with her, and he came 
again and spent the afternoon with her. He read to 
her and kissed her and soothed her his influence was 
very calming, she found. After he had gone for the 
night, Corydon lay thinking, "I still love him!" 

How strange it was that she could love two men at 
once! It was surely very wrong! She would never 
have dreamed that she, Corydon, could do such a thing. 
She thought of Harry Stuart, and of the unacknowl- 
edged thrill of excitement which his presence had 
brought to her. "And now here it is again," she 
mused "only this time it is worse! What can be the 
matter with me?" 



 

Then she wondered, "Do I really love Mr. Harding? 
Haven't I got over it now?" But the least thinking of 
him sufficed to set her heart to thumping again ; and so 
she shrunk from that train of thought. She wanted 
to love her husband. 

He came again the next morning, and Corydon found 
that she was very happy in his presence. Her fever 
was slightly lower, and she thought, "I will get well 
quickly now." 

But alas, she had reckoned in this without Thyrsis ! 
To sit in the hospital all day was a cruel strain upon 
him; the more so as he had been entirely unprepared 
for it. Corydon had assured him that the operation 
would be nothing, and that she would not need him; 
and so he had just finished a harrowing piece of labor 
on the book. Now to stay all day and witness her 
struggle, to satisfy her craving for sympathy and to 
meet and wrestle with her despair it was like having 
the last drops of his soul-energy squeezed out of him. 
He did not know what was troubling Corydon, but the 
rapport between them was so close, that he knew she 
was in some distress of mind. 

He stood the ordeal as long as he could, and then he 
had to beg for respite. Cedric was down on the farm, 
with no one but the servants to care for him ; so he would 
go back, and see that everything was all right, and 
after he had rested up for two or three days, he would 
come again. Corydon smiled faintly and assented for 
that morning she had received a note from Mr. Harding, 
saying that he would be in town the next day, and 
would call. 

So Thyrsis went away, and Corydon lay and thought 
the problem over again. "Yes, I love my husband ; but 
it's such an effort for him to love me ! And why should 



 

that be? I don't believe it would be such an effort for 
Mr. Harding to love me!" 

So again she was seized by the thought of the young 
clergyman. And she was astonished at the difference 
in her feelings the flood of emotion that swept over 
her. Her heart began to beat fast and her cheeks once 
more to burn. He was coming up to the city on pur- 
pose, this time; it must be that he wanted to see her 
very much! 

That night was an especially hard one for her ; she 
felt as though the frail shell that held her were break- 
ing, as though her endurance were failing altogether. 
The- fever had risen, and her bed had seemed like the 
burning arms of Moloch. Once she imagined that the 
room was stifling her, and in a sudden frenzy of im- 
patience she struggled upon one elbow and flung her 
pillow across the room. In that instant she had noticed 
a new and sharp pain in her side; it did not leave her, 
though at the time she thought little about it. 

She was all absorbed in the coming of Mr. Harding; 
by the time morning had come she had made up her 
mind that her one hope of deliverance was in confession. 
She must tell him, she must make known to him her 
love; and he would forgive her, and then her heart 
would not beat so violently at sight of him, her fever 
would abate and she might rest. 

But when he sat there, talking to her, and looking 
so beautiful and so strange, she trembled, and made 
half a dozen vain efforts to begin. Finally she asked, 
"Have you ever read that poem of Heine's 

'Em Jiingling liebt ein Madchen, 
Die hat einen Andern erwahlt?' 



 

"Oh, yes," he answered ; then they were silent again. 
Finally Corydon nerved herself to yet another effort. 
"Mr. Harding," she said, "will you come a little nearer, 
please. I have something very important to say to you." 
And then, waveringly and brokenly, now in agonized 
abashment, now rushing ahead as she felt his encourage- 
ment and sympathy, she gave him the whole story of her 
suffering and its cause. When she came to the words 
"because I love you", she closed her eyes and her spirit 
sank back with a great gasp of relief. 

When she opened them again, his head was bowed 
in his hands and he did not move. "Mr. Harding," she 
whispered, "Mr. Harding, you forgive me, do you not? 
You do not hate me?" 

He roused himself with an effort. "Dear child," said 
he, and as he looked at her she thought she had never 
seen a face so sad, so exquisite "it is I who ask for- 
giveness." 

He rose and came to her bedside, and took her hand 
in both of his. "It would not be right for me to say 
to you what you have said to me. We must not speak 
of this any more. You will promise me this, and then 
you will rest, and to-morrow you will be better. Soon 
you will be well; and how glad your husband will be 
and all of us." 

With that he pressed her hand firmly, and left the 
room; and Corydon turned her face to the wall, and 
whispered happily to herself, "Yes, he loves me, he loves 
me! And now I shall rest!" 

7. FOR a while she slept the sleep of exhaustion, 
nor did there fall across her dreams the shadow of the 
angel of fate who was even then placing his mark upon 
her forehead. Toward morning she was awakened 



 

suddenly with the sharp pain in her side; but it abated 
presently, and Corydon thought blissfully of the after- 
noon before. He would come again to her, she would 
see him that very day ; and so what did pain matter ? 
She was really happy at last. But as the day advanced, 
she became uneasy ; her fever had not diminished, and 
the pain was becoming more persistent. 

The nurse was anxious, too. Her mother came and 
regarded her in alarm. But she was thinking of Mr. 
Harding. He was coming; he might arrive at any 
moment. 

There was a knock upon the door. Corydon's pulse 
fluttered, and she whispered, "Here he is !" She could 
scarcely speak the words, "Come in". But when the 
door opened, she saw that it was the doctor. Her heart 
sank, and she closed her eyes with a moan of pain. 
Could it be that he was not coming? Could it be that 
she had been mistaken that he did not love her after 
all? She must see him she must! She could not en- 
dure this suspense ; she could not endure these inter- 
ruptions by other people. 

The doctor came and sat by her. "I must see what 
is the matter here," he said. "Why do you not get well, 
Corydon?" 

He questioned her carefully and looked grave. "I 
must have a consultation at once," he said. 

Corydon's hand caught at his sleeve. "No, no!" she 
whispered. 

"Don't be afraid," said the doctor. "It won't hurt." 

"It isn't that," said Corydon. She all but added, "I 
must see Mr. Harding!" 

She was wheeled into the operating-room, but this 
time there was no interest in her eyes as she regarded 
the smooth table and the shining instruments. As they 



 

lifted her upon it, she shuddered. "Oh I cannot, I can- 
not!" she wailed. 

"There, there," said the doctor. "Be brave. We 
wish simply to see what the matter is. It won't take 
long." 

And they put the cone to her mouth. Corydon 
struggled and gasped, but it was no use, she was in the 
clutches of the fiend again ; only this time there was no 
ecstasy, and no vision of Mr. Harding. Instead there 
was instant and sickening suffocation. Again she de- 
scended into the uttermost depths of the inferno; and 
it seemed as though this time the brave will was not 
equal to the battle before it. 

The surgeons made their examination, and they dis- 
covered more diseased tissue, and a slowly spreading 
infection. So there was nothing for it but to operate 
again they held a quick consultation, and then went 
ahead. And afterwards they labored and sweated, and 
by dint of persistent effort, and every device at their 
command, they fanned into life once more the faint 
spark in the ashen-grey form that lay before them. But 
it was a feeble flame they got ; as Corydon's eyelids 
fluttered, the only sign of recognition that came from 
her lips was a moan, and from her eyes a look of dazed 
stupidity. But there was hope for her life, the doctors 
said ; and they sent a telegram which Thyrsis got three 
days later, when he had fought his way to the town 
through five miles of heavy snow-drifts. 

Meantime the grim fight for life was going on. In 
the morning Corydon opened her eyes to a burning 
torture, the racked and twisted nerves quivering in re- 
bellion. It did not come in twinges of pain, it was a 
slow, deadening, persistent agony, that pervaded every 
inch of her body. She wondered how she could bear 



 

it, how she could live. And yet, strangely, inexplicably, 
she wanted to live. She did not know why she had 
been outraged, she had been deserted by all, she was 
but a feeble atom of determination in the centre of a 
hostile universe. And yet she would pit her will against 
them all, God, man, and devil; they should not con- 
quer her, she would win out. 

So she would clench her teeth together and fight. 
For hours she would stare at the wall, the blank, un- 
responsive, formless wall before her ; and then, when the 
shadows of the evening fell, and they saw she was faint- 
ing from exhaustion, they would come with the needle 
