“ ’Nough to pay all expenses?” 
We don’t know what they will be, and mother 
will pay as she can,” evasively. Mr. Mann is 
to take charge.” 
‘‘ Now can you be sure he’s honest? Men do 
cheat so nowadays; and as for the truth they 
don’t tell it half the time, nor t’other half either. 
Don’t you think it’s a great risk ? Did your 
mother go down and see the place an’ the doctors ? 
Don’t you know ’bout Mirny Fisk, who went down 
to see about her eye? Oh, no, ’twas afore your 
time. I don’t believe you were born then. She 
was husband’s niece, and she went down to the 
city and paid away fifty good dollars, an’ it didn’t 
do a mite of good. When she come home she 
couldn’t see a mite out of that eye, not even with 
specs. I don’t put much faith in doctors. Do 
you really think his leg will have to come off? 
An’ he so young, too! ’Pears to me I’d about 
as leave he’d die. We’ve all got to die some 
time.” 
Rilla wiped away a tear. There is no likeli- 
hood of his losing his leg, I believe,” she said 
firmly. 
Well, you can’t ’most always tell. Queer 
things happen in most unexpected places. I 
wouldn’t be too confident. Is his board going to 
be paid, or is it one of them charity places?” 
No, he is a paid patient, in a beautiful 
place.” 
Then you mark my words. When their board 
is paid they go on keeping ’em, and when it 
isn’t, they shove ’em out mighty quick. You can’t 
depend upon any one in this deceitful world and 
vale of sorrows. Any of the children had measles 
or whooping-cough ? ” 
“ They’ve all had the whooping-cough.” 
Well, I declare to man! How did your 
mother stand it? I should o’ thought she’d gone 
crazy. An’ it’s a wonder she didn’t take it. Peo- 
ple can have it twice I’ve heerd. Now, in old 
times you had it once for all and was done with 
 
it. But times change so much you never know 
just where you stand. Got plenty of grapes, 
Rilla?’' 
Yes. Will you have some? ” thinking to dis- 
miss her guest. 
I don’t mind if I do. Dave’s wife cut so 
many off for green grape jell that we ain’t hardly 
any ripe ones. Yes, I’ll take some.” Amaryllis 
did them up in a paper bag and handed them to 
her. 
Now, when’ll you be likely to hear about 
Chan? I’ll feel reel anxious. For you know 
there’s that blood poisonin’ that sets in with so 
many things, and lockjaw from just a little scratch 
with a rusty nail. It’s strange how many things 
there are to take people out of the world, an’ after 
all we don’t know much about the next one.” 
” We are not certain when we’ll hear.” 
Well, I’ll stop in again. I always feel sym- 
pathy for them in trouble, the Bible commands you 
to. Much obleeged for the grapes. Oh, Rilla, has 
your mother made any risin’ lately? Dave’s wife 
alwers gets it sour, and her bread is enough to 
turn one blue-mouldy. Your mother’s is alwers so 
good.” 
Sometimes Rilla gave the poor old woman a 
loaf, but now she went to the closet and merely 
broke off a piece of the “ risin’.” Granny stood 
uncertain. 
You’ll likely hear the last of the week? ” 
“ Yes — perhaps,” indifferently. 
“ I sh’d want to hear every day by that telegraft 
or the other thing. Strange now, ain’t it, that you 
can hear talking through that sort of funnel-like 
thing? Mr. Beers has one in the store. But 
’t would be a good ways to go. Well, well, I hope 
Chan won’t lose his leg or his life.” 
Rilla laughed and cried both when she was gone. 
Then she stopped to ask herself whether she fixed 
her gelatin to make the jam stiffen a little bit 
without cooking it away so much. She concluded 
she hadn’t. And where were the twins ? She 
called up the stairway, as she heard some stirring 
round. 
“ Why didn’t you bring Laurel down ? ” she 
asked of Rhoda. 
“ Laurel hasn’t been there. I’ve been straight- 
enin’ things. That garret looks like a hurrah’s 
nest.” 
What a hurrah’s nest ” was Rilla had never 
been able to learn. It was a Denby provincialism 
for unlimited disorder. 
“ Go and look for her, then.” 
Meanwhile Rilla set off her jam to cool a little. 
 
“ rd better take the chicken bones and make a 
pot-pie,” she ruminated. “ The children will be 
as hungry as bears when they come home. School 
does make them so hungry. They can’t eat apples 
and pears in between. It takes an awful lot to 
fill up children, and potatoes and dumplings with 
plenty of gravy go tip-top. There isn’t much 
chicken,” viewing it ruefully, “ but it will have • 
to do.” 
I can’t find Laurel,” announced Rhoda. 
“Twins is an awful bother, ain’t they, Rilla? 
You see, you can find one, but you never do know 
where ’tother one is.” 
“ Go look in that little grapevine corner. I 
dare say she’s been stuffing herself with grapes 
and there’ll be pains and aches all night, and poor 
mother’ll have to be up coddlin’ her.” 
“ Laurel hasn’t much sense,” said this superior 
infant. “ Do you think she’ll be real smart, 
Rilla? She’s just as old as I am and she don’t 
know half as much.” 
“ Well, you use your knowledge in finding her,” 
returned the elder. 
“ And I’ll hit her a good slap,” Rhoda said 
under her breath. “ There’s trouble enough in 
this house about poor Chan, and so many young 
uns going to school. There shouldn’t be twins. 
that there just shouldn’t.” She looked up and 
down the road. 
I’ll bet she’s started for the Briggs’s and 
mommy. O dear, I can’t go ’way down there. 
She shall have two real hard slaps when I do 
catch her.” 
With all her wisdom Rhoda had taken the wrong 
tack. 
Laurel had sat on the doorstep a while with 
Dolly in her arms, talking to herself as to what 
she should do for entertainment, though she didn’t 
use so long a word. Then a bright thought 
flashed across the infantile brain that her com- 
panion must share. 
Tell you what ’e’ll do, Dolly. We’ll do to 
man’s house an’ det Chan. Man didn’t oughter 
take Chan ’way off to det leg mended.” 
She rose with Dolly clasped close, and looked 
about wistfully. 
'' Man does dis way. Dan does, too. Yes, dis 
yight way. We’ll do an’ say, ‘ Man, det your 
carwidge and bing Chan home yight away, ’cause 
mommy cried when he was tookened away. 
Naughty, bad man.’ ” 
Sometimes she ran, sometimes she trotted. She 
was shorter and fatter than Rhoda. Then all 
out of breath she sat down under a tree. 
 
“ Dreffel hot, Dolly ! Tears run out all over 
my face, and ain’t dot no hank’snuf.” She took 
her dress-skirt and wiped them off, then per- 
formed the same office for Dolly, which did not 
seem to improve her complexion. Dolly had 
bright blue eyes made with ink, and rather strag- 
gling black eyelashes, but Laurel had wanted them, 
the eyes, made big so ’tould see,” and thought 
them bu’ful.” 
‘‘ All wested now,” and she rose presently. 
“ Long way, Dolly, but we’ll fin’ man an’ say, 
‘ Naughty man. We ’ant Chan an’ we won’t have 
his leg cut off. Dest do an’ det Chan.’ An’ he’ll 
be so ’faid cause we’ll be vewy andry, real mad 
that means, an’ he’ll do an’ bing Chan wight away, 
an’ pomise to be good all the while,” in solemn 
tones. 
Dolly hugged her up closer. Dolly always did 
her part of the responsiveness. 
Then they went on and on. They chased a 
squirrel running in and out of the fence, they tried 
to get a gorgeous blue butterfly, and laughed when 
a robin looked down at them from a fence post. 
She told Dolly a very much jumbled up story that 
she was honest enough to say was Prim’s, but 
Prim wouldn’t have recognized it. Then they 
grew warm and tired again and sat down on a big 
flat stone that was the coping of the post and 
rail fence. The post had the split side out, and 
it made a back to the seat, and it was very com- 
fortable. The soft winds blew about her, the 
birds sang to her, the laden bees hummed, the 
grasshopper whirred, and the band sent the little 
girl fast asleep. 
Amaryllis fixed her dinner and put the potatoes 
in, the dumplings would not need to cook so long. 
She missed Chan’s willing feet and hands already. 
Then she looked with satisfaction on her jars of 
jam and set them out of harm’s way, cleared up 
her kitchen a little, looked up and down the road, 
and then sat down in the old rocker a few mo- 
ments. There was a noisy eruption which might 
have been the whole eight instead of half of them. 
Oh, did you see the twins ? ” 
“ Where have they gone — to school ? ” 
“ Why, Laurel strayed off and I sent Rhoda to 
look for her. I’m just tired out. I’ve picked 
grapes and made jam, and there’s a great bag full 
of nice ones for Mrs. Elsden, and Granny Keen 
was here dolefuller than the day of doom. Linn, 
won’t you go out and feed the chickens and then 
chop up some wood ? Rhoda thought Laurel 
might have gone out to find mother. Sure you 
didn’t see anything of them?” 
“ Oh, we came ’cross lots. It’s just as sure a 
way home as if you took the longest way round. 
What funny things those old adages are,” laughed 
Marigold. 
And I have a bran’-new word,” almost shouted 
Prim. I had to stay in at recess and write 
* Coliseum ’ over twenty times. Then I looked at 
some pictures in the dictionary. Rill, do you 
really believe the Lord made all these queer ani- 
mals or that they just grew?” 
'' What’s your word ? ” asked Linn, stopping 
at the back door. 
It’s just good, and I thought of a story to 
it — real funny.” 
I don’t see anything funny about ‘ Good.’ ” 
‘‘ ’Twasn’t ‘good,' silly; it was ‘Megatherium,’ 
and there was a picture of him made out of the 
bones they found.” 
“ Well, I can make a gyascutus out of a potato, 
four matches, and some chicken feathers and a bit 
of red flannel. What do they do with your meg 
thing? I don’t believe he is half as good as the 
kron — and all that lingo.” 
“ I think I’ll put a few more syllables to him, 
and I’ll spring him on Miss Norton. When she 
doesn’t know, she gets as mad as a hen in a fence. 
 
But you’ve got to spring it sudden on her and act 
as if you were dying for the knowledge.” 
‘‘What were you doing to be kept in?” asked 
the eldest sister. 
“ A good deed of course. Evil is only good 
misplaced; somewhere else it would be the right 
thing ” 
“ Hush your nonsense. See if there are any 
eggs — I haven’t had a minute this livelong day,” 
said Rilla wearily. 
“Are livelong days longer than any other?” 
asked Marigold seriously. 
“ Well, it’s what you have to put in them. 
And Granny Keen ’most set me wild about 
Chan.” 
“ Everybody’s wild about him,” said Prim. “ I 
’most began to think he’d have to be taken all 
apart and put together like a dissecting puzzle. 
And I couldn’t convince them that he only had to 
be pushed into place and all would be right again. 
Oh, don’t you want to hear?* How can we 
wait ? ” 
“ I hope that will be all,” said Rilla, for some- 
how Granny Keen had made her rather despond- 
ent. 
“All? Of course it will be,” Marigold flung 
out rather fiercely. “ Don’t you believe Mr. 
 
Mann ? Fd trust him all the world over, and sure 
Fd trust him as little way as New York. His 
face is so good and steady, and his voice wants 
to make you sing for joy. And that elegant 
dimple ! I wish I had it in my cheek this 
minute.’’ 
Lay the table, you girls, though. Prim, I sent 
you after the eggs, Linn will forget them. Oh, 
I do wonder if Laurel’s found!” 
Rilla, don’t you think you borrow trouble? 
If a thing is so, why it’s so, and if it isn’t, all 
the worrying won’t make it so. Oh, how splendid 
that pot-pie smells! Rilla, ain’t you afraid the 
dumplings will fall and be heavy, or some of it 
burn?” 
The last sentence was uttered in such a lugubri- 
ous tone that Rilla laughed, tired as she was. 
Prim came in with four eggs. 
“ That will just make up the dozen for Mrs. 
Winter, and she always pays cash down.” 
Linn had thrown the corn into the chicken 
houses and shut them up for the night. The 
fragrance of the supper lured him, and he just 
stopped to pick up an armful of wood. Mother 
would have her supper at Mrs. Briggs’s ; the twins, 
likely. So they sat down, and the platefuls dis- 
appeared rapidly. 
 
“ There ain’t much chicken,” said Tip. “We 
had the chicken yesterday.” 
“ Tip,” began his brother solemnly, “ there was 
once a man stopped at a country hotel, and when 
he came down to breakfast there was only a dish 
of mackerel and a cup of mustard on the table, 
and he said, ' Is there anything else ? I don’t like 
mackerel.’ ‘ Then help yourself to mustard,’ said 
the landlord. Tip, help yourself to potatoes and 
crust, and bread and jam. See what a lot of 
things you have.” 
Tip studied a moment. “ Didn’t he have any 
breakfast? Mustard is bitey and burny. And 
you put plasters on sick people.” 
“Tip, you are progressing. Marigold, isn’t' the 
first physical science, and the other, — well, that 
pertains to medical ” 
“ Therapeutics,” spelled Prim triumphantly. 
“ Oh, Primrose, your knowledge astounds me, 
especially in the spelling line.” 
“ That’s in Friday’s lesson. I’ll bet there won’t 
be one there to spell it right.” 
“Hello!” Linn jumped up. A rough ‘country 
wagon had halted at the door. “ What’s to pay 
now ! ” 
Farmer Bird sat there with a bundle in his 
arms. 
 
** This is one of your young ’uns I guess. I 
found her up head of the lane asleep. Why n’t 
you take better care of her with night cornin’ 
on?” 
Oh ! ” exclaimed Linn. Rilla, come here. 
Why, it’s Laurel.” 
‘‘Are you tall enough to catch holt of her?” 
He leaned over a little. “ Hold Pete steady an’ 
I’ll step out.” 
“ Oh, I can take her,” and Rilla stretched up 
both arms. “ Where was she ? ” 
“ Head o’ the lane, leanin’ ’gainst a post. 
Steady now. Gee! She sleeps sound as a turtle 
in winter ! ” 
He lowered her carefully into Rilla’s arms. 
Then she stirred a little and murmured, “ ’Ants 
muver I ” 
“ Poor baby ! Thank you over a dozen times, 
Mr. Bird.” 
“ Sho now I Anybody’d ’a’ done it.” 
“ Then I should have thanked anybody,” and 
there was a laugh in Rilla’s voice. 
“ Better look closer after her next time. Gid- 
dap, Pete.” 
“ Up the lane. Rhoda went the other way.” 
She stood Laurel down on the ground. “ Naughty 
baby to stray way off.” 
Couldn’t find man's house an’ ’anted Chan.” 
''Oh, the idea! I wonder if she really went 
after Chan?” 
" ’Anted poor Chan. Naughty man to tate him 
away.” 
Rilla led her into the house. Marigold had just 
lighted the lamp, and it made her blink her eyes. 
" ’Ant to go to bed. Dolly so tiwed. Lally 
tiwed too.” 
" Don’t you want any supper?” 
" Lally so tiwed.” 
" Poor baby. I’ll just put her to bed. Oh, what 
a dirty face I ” 
She made no demur at having it washed, and 
the elder undressed her. 
" That’s queer,” began Prim. " Laurel isn’t 
given to straying off. O my ! Suppose she’d had 
to stay there all night ! ” 
" Oh, she wouldn’t I We’d all turned out and 
searched.” 
" It’s funny, her going after Chan. Hello ! 
There’s some more carriage company,” and Mari- 
gold ran out. 
It was her mother and Rhoda brought home by 
Jim Briggs in the buggy. 
"Where’s Laurel? Have you found her?” 
was the mother’s anxious inquiry. 
 
“ Oh, yes, she’s safe in bed. I sent Rhoda out 
to look for her. Did she come clear down to the 
Briggs’s ? ” 
“ Mat picked her up. Dear me ! I’ve had a 
sort of worriment for the last hour. They would 
make us stay to supper as Jim was going over to 
Lauter’s. Jim’s courting pretty steady. What 
did get into the children ! ” 
“ Laurel was going to find Chan. And I’ve 
been so busy,” explained Amaryllis. “ Look at 
my jars of jam, and Granny Keen came and ’most 
worried me to death talking it over, as if we 
didn’t feel bad enough ourselves. Oh, do you 
suppose ” 
“ I’m just going to pin my faith to Mr. Mann, 
with a good, big safety pin at that ! ” interposed 
Marigold. And by this time it’s all over, and 
they’ll keep Chan comfortable as a kitten. I won’t 
let any one worry me with their horrid supposes.” 
That’s right. Marigold. I wonder why every- 
body wants you to look on the dark side ? ” said 
the mother. 
“ I suppose Laurel was losted,” began Rhoda. 
Why couldn’t she stayed around the door where 
we could see her. And I was so tired my legs 
’most fell out.” 
Well, you are all safe now,” said the mother. 
Rilla, your jam looks very nice. And Mrs. 
Briggs offered to dip over those black skirts for 
me, and they’ll make a nice dress. Goodness 
knows, I need it bad enough.” 
And when will my coat get made ? ” inquired 
Linn. 
Oh, I’ll have some time presently,” said the 
mother. 
They cleared the table and straightened up 
things, put Rhoda to bed, and Tip, who sniffed a 
little because he wanted to see Chan. 
Oh, hush up ! ” exclaimed the tired mother. 
The older children studied a while. Rilla sat 
down in the old big rocker and nodded, and pres- 
ently the lights were out and all. was quiet in the 
little old red house, but the last thought of them 
all was about Chan, Chan who was roaming about 
in a sort of enchanted land still full of fragrances. 
CHAPTER XI 
THE CROWN OF HOPE 
Mr. Mann came in to see how it fared with 
him. Nurse Jane made Chan’s acquaintance at 
once. No, indeed, he wasn’t going to be afraid, 
for Dr. Richards said many little boys stood worse 
things than that. 
They fixed him all right, and gave him some- 
thing to smell of that seemed like apple and pear 
blooms, and when he woke up from a lovely sleep 
he was lying on a little cot with something hard 
and queer around his body that startled him at 
first. 
“ It’s the plaster cast,” Nurse Jane explained. 
They pushed the joint back in place and it’s all 
right with you now, arid you will grow straight 
as a yardstick. The plaster will hold it there, 
you see, so it can’t slip away.” 
Did they have to use a trowel ? ” 
There was a little glint of mischief in Chan’s 
eye, and Nurse Jane laughed at such a good sign. 
Then she washed his face with some kind of 
perfumed water and he dropped off to sleep again. 
 
It was a rather disturbed sleep with curious half- 
dreams of sliding down hill over very crusty and 
uneven snow. Last winter he had never been 
able to slide down hill or go sledding. 
He woke up late in the afternoon with the feel- 
ing that some one was looking at him. It wasn’t 
his dear momsey, but perhaps the next best, Mr. 
Mann. 
Oh,” stretching up his arms with a sweet, wel- 
coming cry. 
Mr. Mann leaned over until his warm, rosy face 
touched the pale one, and then he actually kissed 
it, kissed it for the sake of the little boy he used 
to dream about and never had. 
And it’s all right, little fellow. It wasn’t so 
very bad after all, but it would have made you a 
cripple for life if it had not been attended to. 
I’ll send word to your mother. She’ll be so glad 
to hear.” 
And the nurse is so nice. Oh, how many poor 
little hurt children there are I And to think they 
can be mended and grow nice and straight. It’s 
like that pool mother reads about in the Bible 
where some one stirred the water and they went in 
and were made whole. How many beautiful 
things there are in the world, and people! Will 
you go and see mother? ” 
 
“ Yes, to-night. I didn’t go home yesterday, I 
wanted to see how you were this morning.” 
Oh, I’m all right, but I know how a turtle 
feels crawling around with that hard shell on his 
back, only I can’t even crawl. But I’ll just lie 
here straight and not make any trouble, and I’ll 
think of the funny stories Prim tells, and the ridic- 
ulous ideas the twins have, and how Tip cries 
over foolish little things, and the chickens and the 
squirrels that are so tame now, and the children 
coming home from school, and Rilla cook- 
ing good things to eat when mother is out to 
work.” 
You’ll have enough to entertain yourself then, 
and that’s the way to get well. I’ll be in to-mor- 
row and tell you about all the folks.” 
Then Mr. Mann bent over and gave him another 
kiss. Why, it was almost as good as having a real 
father. 
It seemed very queer to lie on one’s back and 
just have your head held up a little to be fed, 
but Nurse Jane was so nice. She reminded him 
of Mrs. Alden, and she wore such a pretty, soft 
white something that looked like a big handker- 
chief crossed over her bosom. Her hands were 
so soft, and her hair had a little waviness in it 
and was partly covered by an odd, dainty cap. 
Sometimes sharp pains went shooting through 
Chan’s hip, and oh, if he could only move his 
body a little! So he made his arms do duty. 
Sometimes they were soldiers marching to and 
fro, sometimes one kept store and the other came 
to buy things. He could see the hens and the 
chickens and the lazy old cat that was shrewd 
enough to keep out of the way of the twins, for 
he didn’t want Laurel to hug him nor Rhoda to 
cuff his ears ; and the flower bed, and the long rows 
of corn that he used to play was a forest and get 
lost in it, as a little German child in his reading 
book did; and there was that lovely Pilot over to 
Mr. Mann’s, and cunning, frolicsome Bitsy. Oh, 
what a splendid place the world was, especially 
the country! 
Mr. Mann brought such good news from home. 
Everybody was well, and next week his mother 
would come in to see him. 
They took the plaster off, and swathed him in 
a bandage, and put a light sort of frame clear 
down to his ankle. That wasn’t nearly so bad, 
for now he could be bolstered up and feed him- 
self and look over some story books full of beauti- 
ful pictures. Oh, if Prim could see them, and 
the spandy new stories! For they had to keep 
changing their fairy stories and adding to those 
about animals, which were really sop’s Fables. 
Linn could stretch them out marvelously. 
And one morning he ventured to sing a little, 
not any song of words, but just as the robin and 
the thrush did. Of course now they would be go- 
ing off somewhere. Oh, what was the South like 
where there wasn’t any snow, and flowers all the 
year round? Up and down the music went, now 
just a mere sound, then a merry little trill like a 
whistle. Why, you might almost think it was a 
thrush. 
A little hand almost like a bird’s claw was 
thrust out and caught Nurse Jane’s dress. She 
turned. This was a very pale, thin little fellow 
with big, wistful blue eyes. 
“Is it a truly bird or is some one singing?” 
he asked. “ It sounds like singing, but there isn’t 
any words.” 
“ I think it’s a little boy over beyond. Shall I 
tell him to stop ? ” 
“Oh, no, no! It’s so beautiful. It brings the 
country and the spring right before you. It was 
June when I came here. You’re all so good, 
better than the nurse at home, but the country 
is so lovely.” 
The singing had stopped. “ What is the boy 
like ? ” Arthur asked. 
Oh, he’s a country boy — well, not exactly 
pretty or plain, with soft brown eyes, and a sweet 
sort of voice that sounds as if it had a laugh in 
it, and he is cheerful and merry.” 
Is he going to get well ? What happened to 
him?” 
Oh, yes. It wasn’t a very serious matter, 
only he would have been lame for life if it hadn’t 
been attended to. In a few weeks he will be able 
to go home.” 
Arthur sighed, and some tears rolled down his 
cheeks. 
'' I wish he’d sing some more. Oh, Nurse 
Jane, do you think I could be taken over there 
and see him? I’d like to see him.” 
This ward was not all one long space with the 
cots in a row, but was made into little booths by 
the use of screens. The very severe cases were 
down to the lower end, indeed some of the fractious 
patients were by themselves. Nurse Jane looked 
at the poor little fellow for whom the doctors said 
now there was no hope, for his little heart was 
’most worn out. The operations had eased him 
some, but it was a very bad case. 
“ We will just have to keep him comfortable,” 
the doctor said. It can’t be for long. Poor, 
patient little fellow. Money can’t do everything.” 
 
“ ril see/’ Nurse Jane said. The little fellow 
in the next cot to Chan was going away in a day 
or two. 
I’ve been singing,” exclaimed Chan with a 
bright flush as the nurse approached. “ Mother’s 
coming to-day, and I’m so glad. I just wanted 
to jump up and down. Did I make too much 
noise? I’m sorry ” 
“ No. You might sing some more. The chil- 
dren liked it, and it was charming. There is a 
little boy over beyond who was just delighted. 
But don’t sing yourself tired.” 
Oh, I don’t believe anything would tire me, 
I feel so well. Why, I’m gay as a lark.” 
The nurse smiled as she went on. 
‘‘ Who is that singing? ” asked the head nurse. 
Why, it’s like a bird. Has any child here a voice 
like that ? ” 
It is the little Firth boy that Mr. Mann 
brought here. He certainly has a wonderful 
voice, and he’s the cheeriest little fellow. It 
wasn’t a bad case at all. His mother is coming 
to-day, and I’m anxious to see what she is like. 
There are eight children in the family and 
all as sound as a nut, yet they must be poor, 
too.” 
Well, I should say the child had a fortune 
in his voice. Just listen to that! It’s as clear as 
a bell.” 
“ That Wilmer boy is going out of the ward 
to-day or to-morrow, and Arthur wondered if 
he couldn’t come nearer the fascinating voice. 
Why, it quite roused him.” 
“ I don’t see any objection. A change is bene- 
ficial sometimes.” 
Yes, Chan was very merry, but he had to keep 
so much of it inside. It couldn’t help shining in 
his eyes and playing about his lips in the gayest of 
smiles. He wished he knew a song about 
mothers. There were some about babies. Was 
there ever such a long morning! And then came 
dinner. What if mother had not come! 
Don’t get excited,” said the nurse, smiling as 
well. But his little hands were moist, and though 
his cheeks were red, the little dampness at the 
edge of his forehead made the hair curl some- 
what. Why, he was quite a good-looking child 
now that the tan had gone off and the few freckles 
disappeared. 
Mrs. Firth had managed her new frock. It 
wasn’t exactly tailor-made, but it looked very well, 
only the coat and the bonnet were — well, hardly 
passable. And in the train Mr. Mann kept think- 
ing. He wondered how he had come to notice 
 
women's clothes so much. Mrs. Alden was al- 
ways so neat and trim, and Mrs. Ross. Oh, now 
he had it, and he smiled until the dimple went 
almost through his cheek. 
You must have a new coat and hat," he said. 
‘‘ City people dress so much more. And for 
Chan’s sake. He’ll be mortal proud of you be- 
fore' the nurses. And no doubt you’ll see the 
doctor. I’ll take you to that friend, Mrs. Ross, 
my partner’s wife, and she’ll tell you what to get, 
something just right and not too fine.’’ 
Mr. Mann — but ’’ Her lip quivered and 
she was breathless, speechless after she had 
glanced at his steadfast face. 
“ Oh,’’ he said in a most matter-of-fact tone, 
‘‘ Chan’ll pay it all back some day. You needn’t 
be afraid.’’ 
Mrs. Firth wasn’t a born fighter or a born 
arguer, and for the last six months or so Amaryl- 
lis and Linn had taken it upon themselves to ad- 
vise, and Rill’s was so good and sensible that she 
yielded as she had to her husband except on the 
two or three occasions. The boys must certainly 
try to pay back everything. She found Mrs. Ross 
living very simply, and certainly cordial. They 
had a congenial topic — children. 
‘‘ Though I can’t imagine what I should do with 
eight,” said Mrs. Ross. My three keep me 
pretty busy sewing. And you haven’t any ma- 
chine. And there’s stockings to darn.” 
You don’t have ’em all at once, and the big 
ones help take care of the little ones. Marigold 
darns all the stockings, and Rilla’s the handiest 
girl. Then Primrose is so fond of knitting, and 
she’s the greatest speller you ever saw. The boys 
do a good bit of gardening. Their father was 
great on that business. And we have the house, 
so there isn’t any rent to pay.” 
“ That does make a difference. Rent eats up a 
lot of money.” 
So they went out and shopped; not at the great 
stores, but at rather quiet places. Mrs. Firth was 
using her eyes everywhere so as to tell Rilla when 
she went home. Then they returned and had a 
sort of pick-up luncheon, but oh, how pretty the 
dishes were ! And the table was arranged in such 
a neat fashion, like Mrs. Burnham’s. The ordi- 
nary Denby people were not great on style. This 
would suit Marigold. And the children were so 
well trained. And hers were noisy with fun. 
Mr. Mann came for her. Woman-like, they 
had gossiped a little about him. Of course Mrs. 
Ross thought he never could be foolish enough 
to assume the care of eight children, though she 
 
rather suspected he meant to adopt Chan. They 
both agreed about his virtues, and how benevolent 
he was. Mrs. Firth was glad to hear how gener- 
ous he had been to the Rosses. Then it wasn’t 
such a wonderful thing that he should befriend 
them. 
“ I suspect he wasn’t very happy in his married 
life. From what I can gather I think his wife 
was one of the driving, saving folks, and lived 
in a kind of penurious manner. And now he has 
such a splendid home, and Mrs. Alden, have you 
seen her? ” 
Oh, no, I haven’t been over to the house. 
Some of the children have. Marigold thinks it 
even ahead of the parsonage, and it’s ever so much 
larger.” 
And now he ought to -have a nice wife who 
would study his happiness and who would pull 
the way he wants to and let him be generous 
when he feels so inclined. It’s such a pleasure 
to him. And I can’t help thinking, even hoping — 
it would be just the thing ” 
She looked intently at Mrs. Firth. The face 
had the sweet innocence of a child. 
What would ? ” she asked almost eagerly. 
If he would marry Mrs. Alden. She is a 
perfect housekeeper and she has such a sympa- 
thetic sort of nature and such a sweet temper. 
I’ve known her for years.” 
“ Oh, that would be splendid ! Why, little 
Tip cried in the night — he often wakes up fright- 
ened, and she came in and cuddled him up so, 
‘ just like you, mommy,’ Chan said, and soon 
hushed him to sleep. All of ’em liked her so much. 
And if he should take any poor, little orphan 
child out of an asylum as he once spoke of, she’d 
be as good as an own mother to him.” 
She wasn’t even thinking of saddling one of 
her own children upon him, Mrs. Ross could see 
that. However did the absurd idea come into 
her head that he might be attracted to Mrs. Firth? 
When he came in he was surprised to see how 
much she was improved by her new coat and hat. 
And she had a very curious and lovely feeling 
toward him, as if she had in some way surprised 
the secret of his life, something that was to make 
him very happy, and surely he deserved it. 
Then they went to the hospital, and he presented 
her to two of the doctors and the nurses, and 
heard such good accounts of Chandler. And 
Nurse Jane convoyed her to the ward and left her 
kneeling there by the cot with her boy’s arms 
about her neck. 
Of course they cried a little, but it was for 
 
pure joy, and then she took the chair by the cot, 
and laid aside her hat, and they began to talk. 
He wanted to know all that had happened, and 
laughed at some of the lugubrious predictions. 
“ Oh, won’t I surprise them all when I come 
home straight and don’t have to wabble! Of 
course I’ll have to be careful for a while, and I 
can’t skate any this winter, but then, I couldn’t 
last winter, and it wasn’t so awful hard. Why, 
you can do without a good many things if you 
put something else in their places.” 
Then she had to tell what Linn was studying, 
and about all she could remember was the geog- 
raphy of Japan and China. And Marigold looked 
after the chickens a good deal, and they had sold 
a barrel of winter pears and two barrels of apples, 
and had orders for all their quinces. Prim was 
finding big words and putting ridiculous stories to 
them, and Laurel still talked crooked words, and 
how she had started for Mr. Mann’s house to 
bring Chan back, and about the neighbors, even 
to Granny Keen, who was quite sure Chan would 
never come back alive. 
“ And I’ve never been sick nor had a bit of 
fever. Dr. Richards says I am the very best 
patient he ever had,” laughed Chan. 
And Jim Briggs is going to be married at 
 
Thanksgiving. Mrs. Briggs is always cleaning 
house, I do believe, and now she’s making her 
new rag carpet. Goldie and Prim are going to 
sew rags for her. She’s got two breadths yet to 
make. And they have a new baby at the War- 
ners’, and Katy Burnham’s been sick again, and 
old Mr. Cross is dead.” 
Dear, how many changes I’ll find when I get 
back. But it’ll be just grand to see me go walk- 
ing round on two good legs ! And did you make 
Rilla’s pretty new dress? ” 
Yes, and she had made Linn such a nice coat 
out of Aunt Kitty’s cloak, and Goldie had a new 
dress out of a plaid skirt that the girls at school 
thought was splendid. 
“ And you’ve got a nice new bonnet, mother. 
Oh, and a new coat ! ” 
She blushed. Yes, Mr. Mann insisted that I 
should have them. I s’pose he wanted the folks 
here to think your mother was some great things. 
And, Chan ” She blushed still deeper. “ I 
didn’t have the money, but he said when you were 
big enough to work you’d pay it back. And oh, 
Chan, I hope you will and all the cost here. You 
can’t pay back the pure goodness part, but the 
money ” 
'' Oh, yes. You’ll see. Linn and I will 
 
