and yet I know no more than you how he lives and where he goes."
She let her hand fall from his shoulder. She was glad that he did not
know.
"But look!" she cried in warning.
Abbott looked.
A woman was coming serenely down the path from the wooded promontory, a
woman undeniably handsome in a cedar-tinted linen dress, exquisitely
fashioned, with a touch of vivid scarlet on her hat and a most tantalizing
flash of scarlet ankle. It was Flora Desimone, fresh from her morning bath
and a substantial breakfast. The errand that had brought her from
Aix-les-Bains was confessedly a merciful one. But she possessed the
dramatist's instinct to prolong a situation. Thus, to make her act of
mercy seem infinitely larger than it was, she was determined first to cast
the Apple of Discord into this charming corner of Eden. The Apple of
Discord, as every man knows, is the only thing a woman can throw with any
accuracy.
The artist snatched up his brushes, and ruined the painting forthwith, for
all time. The foreground was, in his opinion, beyond redemption; so, with
a savage humor, he rapidly limned in a score of impossible trees, turned
midday into sunset, with a riot of colors which would have made the
Chinese New-year in Canton a drab and sober event in comparison. He hated
Flora Desimone, as all Nora's adherents most properly did, but with a
hatred wholly reflective and adapted to Nora's moods.
"You have spoiled it!" cried Celeste. She had watched the picture grow,
and to see it ruthlessly destroyed this way hurt her. "How could you!"
"Worst I ever did." He began to change the whole effect, chuckling audibly
as he worked. Sunset divided honors with moonlight. It was no longer
incongruous; it was ridiculous. He leaned back and laughed. "I'm going to
send it to L'Asino, and call it an afterthought."
"Give it to me."
"What?"
"Yes."
"Nonsense! I'm going to touch a match to it. I'll give you that picture
with the lavender in bloom."
"I want this."
"But you can not hang it."
"I want it."
"Well!" The more he learned about women the farther out of mental reach
they seemed to go. Why on earth did she want this execrable daub? "You may
have it; but all the same, I'm going to call an oculist and have him
examine your eyes."
"Why, it is the Signorina Fournier!"
In preparing studiously to ignore Flora Desimone's presence they had
forgotten all about her.
"Good morning, Signora," said Celeste in Italian.
"And the Signore Abbott, the painter, also!" The Calabrian raised what she
considered her most deadly weapon, her lorgnette.
Celeste had her fancy-work instantly in her two hands; Abbott's were
occupied; Flora's hands were likewise engaged; thus, the insipid mockery
of hand-shaking was nicely and excusably avoided.
"What is it?" asked Flora, squinting.
"It is a new style of the impressionist which I began this morning,"
soberly.
"It looks very natural," observed Flora.
"Natural!" Abbott dropped his mahl-stick.
"It is Vesuv', is it not, on a cloudy day?"
This was too much for Abbott's gravity, and he laughed.
"It was not necessary to spoil a good picture ... on my account," said
Flora, closing the lorgnette with a snap. Her great dark eyes were dreamy
and contemplative like a cat's, and, as every one knows, a cat's eye is
the most observing of all eyes. It is quite in the order of things, since
a cat's attitude toward the world is by need and experience wholly
defensive.
"The Signora is wrong. I did not spoil it on her account. It was past
helping yesterday. But I shall, however, rechristen it Vesuvius, since it
represents an eruption of temper."
Flora tapped the handle of her parasol with the lorgnette. It was
distinctly a sign of approval. These Americans were never slow-witted. She
swung the parasol to and fro, slowly, like a pendulum.
"It is too bad," she said, her glance roving over the white walls of the
villa.
"It was irrevocably lost," Abbott declared.
"No, no; I do not mean the picture. I am thinking of La Toscana. Her voice
was really superb; and to lose it entirely...!" She waved a sympathetic
hand.
Abbott was about to rise up in vigorous protest. But fate itself chose to
rebuke Flora. From the window came--"Sai cos' ebbe cuore!"--sung as only
Nora could sing it.
The ferrule of Flora Desimone's parasol bit deeply into the clover-turf.
CHAPTER XVII
THE BALL AT THE VILLA
"Do you know the Duchessa?" asked Flora Desimone.
"Yes." It was three o'clock the same afternoon. The duke sat with his wife
under the vine-clad trattoria on the quay. Between his knees he held his
Panama hat, which was filled with ripe hazelnuts. He cracked them
vigorously with his strong white teeth and filliped the broken shells into
the lake, where a frantic little fish called agoni darted in and about
the slowly sinking particles. "Why?" The duke was not any grayer than he
had been four or five months previous, but the characteristic expression
of his features had undergone a change. He looked less Jovian than
Job-like.
"I want you to get an invitation to her ball at the Villa Rosa to-night."
"We haven't been here twenty-four hours!" in mild protest.
"What has that to do with it? It doesn't make any difference."
"I suppose not." He cracked and ate a nut. "Where is he?"
"He has gone to Milan. He left hurriedly. He's a fool," impatiently.
"Not necessarily. Foolishness is one thing and discretion is another. Oh,
well; his presence here was not absolutely essential. Presently he will
marry and settle down and be a good boy." The next nut was withered, and
he tossed it aside. "Is her voice really gone?"
"No." Flora leaned with her arms upon the railing and glared at the
wimpling water. She had carried the Apple of Discord up the hill and down
again. Nora had been indisposed.
"I am glad of that."
She turned the glare upon him.
"I am very glad of that, considering your part in the affair."
"Michael...!"
"Be careful. Michael is always a prelude to a temper. Have one of these,"
offering a nut.
She struck it rudely from his hand.
"Sometimes I am tempted to put my two hands around that exquisite neck of
yours."
"Try it."
"No, I do not believe it would be wise. But if ever I find out that you
have lied to me, that you loved the fellow and married me out of
spite...." He completed the sentence by suggestively crunching a nut.
The sullen expression on her face gave place to a smile. "I should like to
see you in a rage."
"No, my heart; you would like nothing of the sort. I understand you better
than you know; that accounts for my patience. You are Italian. You are
caprice and mood. I come from a cold land. If ever I do get angry, run,
run as fast as ever you can."
Flora was not, among other things, frivolous or light-headed. There was an
earthquake hidden somewhere in this quiet docile man, and the innate
deviltry of the woman was always trying to dig down to it. But she never
deceived herself. Some day this earthquake would open up and devour her.
"I hate him. He snubbed me. I have told you that a thousand times."
He laughed and rattled the nuts in his hat.
"I want you to get that invitation."
"And if I do not?"
"I shall return immediately to Paris."
"And break your word to me?"
"As easily as you break one of these nuts."
"And if I get the invitation?"
"I shall fulfil my promise to the letter. I will tell her as I promised."
"Out of love for me?"
"Out of love for you, and because the play no longer interests me."
"I wonder what new devilment is at work in your mind?"
"Michael, I do not want to get into a temper. It makes lines in my face. I
hate this place. It is dead. I want life, and color, and music. I want the
rest of September in Ostend."
"Paris, Capri, Taormina, Ostend; I marvel if ever you will be content to
stay in one place long enough for me to get my breath?"
"My dear, I am young. One of these days I shall be content to sit by your
great Russian fireplace and hold your hand."
"Hold it now."
She laughed and pressed his hand between her own. "Michael, look me
straight in the eyes." He did so willingly enough. "There is no other man.
And if you ever look at another woman ... Well!"
"I'll send over for the invitation." He stuffed his pockets with nuts and
put on his hat.
Flora then proceeded secretly to polish once more the Apple of Discord
which, a deal tarnished for lack of use, she had been compelled to bring
down from the promontory.
                   *       *       *       *       *
"Am I all right?" asked Harrigan.
Courtlandt nodded. "You look like a soldier in mufti, and more than that,
like the gentleman that you naturally are," quite sincerely.
The ex-gladiator blushed. "This is the reception-room. There's the
ballroom right out there. The smoking-room is on the other side. Now, how
in the old Harry am I going to get across without killing some one?"
Courtlandt resisted the desire to laugh. "Supposing you let me pilot you
over?"
"You're the referee. Ring the gong."
"Come on, then."
"What! while they are dancing?" backing away in dismay.
The other caught him by the arm. "Come on."
And in and out they went, hither and thither, now dodging, now pausing to
let the swirl pass, until at length Harrigan found himself safe on shore,
in the dim cool smoking-room.
"I don't see how you did it," admiringly.
"I'll drop in every little while to see how you are getting on,"
volunteered Courtlandt. "You can sit by the door if you care to see them
dance. I'm off to see Mrs. Harrigan and tell her where you are. Here's a
cigar."
Harrigan turned the cigar over and over in his fingers, all the while
gazing at the young man's diminishing back. He sighed. That would make
him the happiest man in the world. He examined the carnelian band
encircling the six-inches of evanescent happiness. "What do you think of
that!" he murmured. "Same brand the old boy used to smoke. And if he pays
anything less than sixty apiece for 'em at wholesale, I'll eat this one."
Then he directed his attention to the casual inspection of the room. A few
elderly men were lounging about. His sympathy was at once mutely extended;
it was plain that they too had been dragged out. At the little smoker's
tabouret by the door he espied two chairs, one of which was unoccupied;
and he at once appropriated it. The other chair was totally obscured by
the bulk of the man who sat in it; a man, bearded, blunt-nosed, passive,
but whose eyes were bright and twinkling. Hanging from his cravat was a
medal of some kind. Harrigan lighted his cigar, and gave himself up to the
delights of it.
"They should leave us old fellows at home," he ventured.
"Perhaps, in most cases, the women would much prefer that."
"Foreigner," thought Harrigan. "Well, it does seem that the older we get
the greater obstruction we become."
"What is old age?" asked the thick but not unpleasant voice of the
stranger.
"It's standing aside. Years don't count at all. A man is as young as he
feels."
"And a woman as old as she looks!" laughed the other.
"Now, I don't feel old, and I am fifty-one."
The man with the beard shot an admiring glance across the tabouret. "You
are extraordinarily well preserved, sir. You do not seem older than I, and
I am but forty."
"The trouble is, over here you play cards all night in stuffy rooms and
eat too many sauces." Harrigan had read this somewhere, and he was pleased
to think that he could recall it so fittingly.
"Agreed. You Americans are getting out in the open more than any other
white people."
"Wonder how he guessed I was from the States?" Aloud, Harrigan said: "You
don't look as though you'd grow any older in the next ten years."
"That depends." The bearded man sighed and lighted a fresh cigarette.
"There's a beautiful young woman," with an indicative gesture toward the
ballroom.
Harrigan expanded. It was Nora, dancing with the Barone.
"She's the most beautiful young woman in the world," enthusiastically.
"Ah, you know her?" interestedly.
"I am her father!"--as Louis XIV might have said, "I am the State."
The bearded man smiled. "Sir, I congratulate you both."
Courtlandt loomed in the doorway. "Comfortable?"
"Perfectly. Good cigar, comfortable chair, fine view."
The duke eyed Courtlandt through the pall of smoke which he had
purposefully blown forth. He questioned, rather amusedly, what would have
happened had he gone down to the main hall that night in Paris? Among the
few things he admired was a well-built handsome man. Courtlandt on his
part pretended that he did not see.
"You'll find the claret and champagne punches in the hall," suggested
Courtlandt.
"Not for mine! Run away and dance."
"Good-by, then." Courtlandt vanished.
"There's a fine chap. Edward Courtlandt, the American millionaire." It was
not possible for Harrigan to omit this awe-compelling elaboration.
"Edward Courtlandt." The stranger stretched his legs. "I have heard of
him. Something of a hunter."
"One of the keenest."
"There is no half-way with your rich American: either his money ruins him
or he runs away from it."
"There's a stunner," exclaimed Harrigan. "Wonder how she got here?"
"To which lady do you refer?"
"The one in scarlet. She is Flora Desimone. She and my daughter sing
together sometimes. Of course you have heard of Eleonora da Toscana;
that's my daughter's stage name. The two are not on very good terms,
naturally."
"Quite naturally," dryly.
"But you can't get away from the Calabrian's beauty," generously.
"No." The bearded man extinguished his cigarette and rose, laying a
carte-de-visite on the tabouret. "More, I should not care to get away
from it. Good evening," pleasantly. The music stopped. He passed on into
the crowd.
Harrigan reached over and picked up the card. "Suffering shamrocks! if
Molly could only see me now," he murmured. "I wonder if I made any breaks?
The grand duke, and me hobnobbing with him like a waiter! James, this is
all under your hat. We'll keep the card where Molly won't find it."
Young men began to drift in and out. The air became heavy with smoke, the
prevailing aroma being that of Turkish tobacco of which Harrigan was not
at all fond. But his cigar was so good that he was determined not to stir
until the coal began to tickle the end of his nose. Since Molly knew where
he was there was no occasion to worry.
Abbott came in, pulled a cigarette case out of his pocket, and impatiently
struck a match. His hands shook a little, and the flare of the match
revealed a pale and angry countenance.
"Hey, Abbott, here's a seat. Get your second wind."
"Thanks." Abbott dropped into the chair and smoked quickly. "Very stuffy
out there. Too many."
"You look it. Having a good time?"
"Oh, fine!" There was a catch in the laugh which followed, but Harrigan's
ear was not trained for these subtleties of sound, "How are you making
out?"
"I'm getting acclimated. Where's the colonel to-night? He ought to be
around here somewhere."
"I left him a few moments ago."
"When you see him again, send him in. He's a live one, and I like to hear
him talk."
"I'll go at once," crushing his cigarette in the Jeypore bowl.
"What's your hurry? You look like a man who has just lost his job."
"Been steering a German countess. She was wound up to turn only one way,
and I am groggy. I'll send the colonel over. By-by."
"Now, what's stung the boy?"
Nora was enjoying herself famously. The men hummed around her like bees
around the sweetest rose. From time to time she saw Courtlandt hovering
about the outskirts. She was glad he had come: the lepidopterist is latent
or active in most women; to impale the butterfly, the moth falls easily
into the daily routine. She was laughing and jesting with the men. Her
mother stood by, admiringly. This time Courtlandt gently pushed his way to
Nora's side.
"May I have a dance?" he asked.
"You are too late," evenly. She was becoming used to the sight of him,
much to her amazement.
"I am sorry."
"Why, Nora, I didn't know that your card was filled!" said Mrs. Harrigan.
She had the maternal eye upon Courtlandt.
"Nevertheless," said Nora sweetly, "it is a fact."
"I am disconsolate," replied Courtlandt, who had approached for form's
sake only, being fully prepared for a refusal. "I have the unfortunate
habit of turning up late," with a significance which only Nora
understood.
"So, those who are late must suffer the consequences."
"Supper?"
"The Barone rather than you."
The music began again, and Abbott whirled her away. She was dressed in
Burmese taffeta, a rich orange. In the dark of her beautiful black hair
there was the green luster of emeralds; an Indian-princess necklace of
emeralds and pearls was looped around her dazzling white throat.
Unconsciously Courtlandt sighed audibly, and Mrs. Harrigan heard this note
of unrest.
"Who is that?" asked Mrs. Harrigan.
"Flora Desimone's husband, the duke. He and Mr. Harrigan were having quite
a conversation in the smoke-room."
"What!" in consternation.
"They were getting along finely when I left them."
Mrs. Harrigan felt her heart sink. The duke and James together meant
nothing short of a catastrophe; for James would not know whom he was
addressing, and would make all manner of confidences. She knew something
would happen if she let him out of her sight. He was eternally talking to
strangers.
"Would you mind telling Mr. Harrigan that I wish to see him?"
"Not at all."
Nora stopped at the end of the ballroom. "Donald, let us go out into the
garden. I want a breath of air. Did you see her?"
"Couldn't help seeing her. It was the duke, I suppose. It appears that he
is an old friend of the duchess. We'll go through the conservatory. It's a
short-cut."
The night was full of moonshine; it danced upon the water; it fired the
filigree tops of the solemn cypress; it laced the lawn with quivering
shadows; and heavy hung the cloying perfume of the box-wood hedges.
"O bellissima notta!" she sang. "Is it not glorious?"
"Nora," said Abbott, leaning suddenly toward her.
"Don't say it. Donald; please don't. Don't waste your love on me. You are
a good man, and I should not be worthy the name of woman if I did not feel
proud and sad. I want you always as a friend; and if you decide that can
not be, I shall lose faith in everything. I have never had a brother, and
in these two short years I have grown to look on you as one. I am sorry.
But if you will look back you will see that I never gave you any
encouragement. I was never more than your comrade. I have many faults, but
I am not naturally a coquette. I know my heart; I know it well."
"Is there another?" in despair.
"Once upon a time, Donald, there was. There is nothing now but ashes. I am
telling you this so that it will not be so hard for you to return to the
old friendly footing. You are a brave man. Any man is who takes his heart
in his hand and offers it to a woman. You are going to take my hand and
promise to be my friend always."
"Ah, Nora!"
"You mustn't, Donald. I can't return to the ballroom with my eyes red. You
will never know how a woman on the stage has to fight to earn her bread.
And that part is only a skirmish compared to the ceaseless war men wage
against her. She has only the fortifications of her wit and her presence
of mind. Was I not abducted in the heart of Paris? And but for the
cowardice of the man, who knows what might have happened? If I have
beauty, God gave it to me to wear, and wear it I will. My father, the
padre, you and the Barone; I would not trust any other men living. I am
often unhappy, but I do not inflict this unhappiness on others. Be you the
same. Be my friend; be brave and fight it out of your heart." Quickly she
drew his head toward her and lightly kissed the forehead. "There! Ah,
Donald, I very much need a friend."
"All right, Nora," bravely indeed, for the pain in his young heart cried
out for the ends of the earth in which to hide. "All right! I'm young;
maybe I'll get over it in time. Always count on me. You wouldn't mind
going back to the ballroom alone, would you? I've got an idea I'd like to
smoke over it. No, I'll take you to the end of the conservatory and come
back. I can't face the rest of them just now."
Nora had hoped against hope that it was only infatuation, but in the last
few days she could not ignore the truth that he really loved her. She had
thrown him and Celeste together in vain. Poor Celeste, poor lovely
Celeste, who wore her heart upon her sleeve, patent to all eyes save
Donald's! Thus, it was with defined purpose that she had lured him this
night into the garden. She wanted to disillusion him.
The Barone, glooming in an obscure corner of the conservatory, saw them
come in. Abbott's brave young face deceived him. At the door Abbott smiled
and bowed and returned to the garden. The Barone rose to follow him. He
had committed a theft of which he was genuinely sorry; and he was man
enough to seek his rival and apologize. But fate had chosen for him the
worst possible time. He had taken but a step forward, when a tableau
formed by the door, causing him to pause irresolutely.
Nora was face to face at last with Flora Desimone.
"I wish to speak to you," said the Italian abruptly.
"Nothing you could possibly say would interest me," declared Nora,
haughtily and made as if to pass.
"Do not be too sure," insolently.
Their voices were low, but they reached the ears of the Barone, who wished
he was anywhere but here. He moved silently behind the palms toward the
exit.
"Let me be frank. I hate you and detest you with all my heart," continued
Flora. "I have always hated you, with your supercilious airs, you, whose
father...."
"Don't you dare to say an ill word of him!" cried Nora, her Irish blood
throwing hauteur to the winds. "He is kind and brave and loyal, and I am
proud of him. Say what you will about me; it will not bother me in the
least."
The Barone heard no more. By degrees he had reached the exit, and he was
mightily relieved to get outside. The Calabrian had chosen her time well,
for the conservatory was practically empty. The Barone's eyes searched the
shadows and at length discerned Abbott leaning over the parapet.
"Ah!" said Abbott, facing about. "So it is you. You deliberately scratched
off my name and substituted your own. It was the act of a contemptible
cad. And I tell you here and now. A cad!"
The Barone was Italian. He had sought Abbott with the best intentions; to
apologize abjectly, distasteful though it might be to his hot blood.
Instead, he struck Abbott across the mouth, and the latter promptly
knocked him down.
CHAPTER XVIII
PISTOLS FOR TWO
Courtlandt knocked on the studio door.
"Come in."
He discovered Abbott, stretched out upon the lounge, idly picking at the
loose plaster in the wall.
"Hello!" said Abbott carelessly. "Help yourself to a chair."
Instead, Courtlandt walked about the room, aimlessly. He paused at the
window; he picked up a sketch and studied it at various angles; he kicked
the footstool across the floor, not with any sign of anger but with a
seriousness that would have caused Abbott to laugh, had he been looking at
his friend. He continued, however, to pluck at the plaster. He had always
hated and loved Courtlandt, alternately. He never sought to analyze this
peculiar cardiac condition. He only knew that at one time he hated the
man, and that at another he would have laid down his life for him. Perhaps
it was rather a passive jealousy which he mistook for hatred. Abbott had
never envied Courtlandt his riches; but often the sight of Courtlandt's
physical superiority, his adaptability, his knowledge of men and affairs,
the way he had of anticipating the unspoken wishes of women, his
unembarrassed gallantry, these attributes stirred the envy of which he was
always manly enough to be ashamed. Courtlandt's unexpected appearance in
Bellaggio had also created a suspicion which he could not minutely define.
The truth was, when a man loved, every other man became his enemy, not
excepting her father: the primordial instinct has survived all the
applications of veneer. So, Abbott was not at all pleased to see his
friend that morning.
At length Courtlandt returned to the lounge. "The Barone called upon me
this morning."
"Oh, he did?"
"I think you had better write him an apology."
Abbott sat up. He flung the piece of plaster violently to the floor.
"Apologize? Well, I like your nerve to come here with that kind of wabble.
Look at these lips! Man, he struck me across the mouth, and I knocked him
down."
"It was a pretty good wallop, considering that you couldn't see his face
very well in the dark. I always said that you had more spunk to the square
inch than any other chap I know. But over here, Suds, as you know, it's
different. You can't knock down an officer and get away with it. So, you
just sit down at your desk and write a little note, saying that you regret
your hastiness. I'll see that it goes through all right. Fortunately, no
one heard of the row."
"I'll see you both farther!" wrathfully. "Look at these lips, I say!"
"Before he struck you, you must have given provocation."
"Sha'n't discuss what took place. Nor will I apologize."
"That's final?"
"You have my word for it."
"Well, I'm sorry. The Barone is a decent sort. He gives you the
preference, and suggests that you select pistols, since you would be no
match for him with rapiers."
"Pistols!" shouted Abbott. "For the love of glory, what are you driving
at?"
"The Barone has asked me to be his second. And I have despatched a note to
the colonel, advising him to attend to your side. I accepted the Barone's
proposition solely that I might get here first and convince you that an
apology will save you a heap of discomfort. The Barone is a first-rate
shot, and doubtless he will only wing you. But that will mean scandal and
several weeks in the hospital, to say nothing of a devil of a row with the
civil authorities. In the army the Italian still fights his duello, but
these affairs never get into the newspapers, as in France. Seldom,
however, is any one seriously hurt. They are excitable, and consequently a
good shot is likely to shoot wildly at a pinch. So there you are, my
boy."
"Are you in your right mind? Do you mean to tell me that you have come
here to arrange a duel?" asked Abbott, his voice low and a bit shaky.
"To prevent one. So, write your apology. Don't worry about the moral side
of the question. It's only a fool who will offer himself as a target to a
man who knows how to shoot. You couldn't hit the broadside of a barn with
a shot-gun."
Abbott brushed the dust from his coat and got up. "A duel!" He laughed a
bit hysterically. Well, why not? Since Nora could never be his, there was
no future for him. He might far better serve as a target than to go on
living with the pain and bitterness in his heart. "Very well. Tell the
Barone my choice is pistols. He may set the time and place himself."
"Go over to that desk and write that apology. If you don't, I promise on
my part to tell Nora Harrigan, who, I dare say, is at the bottom of this,
innocently or otherwise."
"Courtlandt!"
"I mean just what I say. Take your choice. Stop this nonsense yourself
like a reasonable human being, or let Nora Harrigan stop it for you. There
will be no duel, not if I can help it."
Abbott saw instantly what would happen. Nora would go to the Barone and
beg off for him. "All right! I'll write that apology. But listen: you will
knock hereafter when you enter any of my studios. You've kicked out the
bottom from the old footing. You are not the friend you profess to be. You
are making me a coward in the eyes of that damned Italian. He will never
understand this phase of it." Thereupon Abbott ran over to his desk and
scribbled the note, sealing it with a bang. "Here you are. Perhaps you had
best go at once."
"Abby, I'm sorry that you take this view."
"I don't care to hear any platitudes, thank you."
"I'll look you up to-morrow, and on my part I sha'n't ask for any apology.
In a little while you'll thank me. You will even laugh with me."
"Permit me to doubt that," angrily. He threw open the door.
Courtlandt was too wise to argue further. He had obtained the object of
his errand, and that was enough for the present. "Sorry you are not open
to reason. Good morning."
When the door closed, Abbott tramped the floor and vented his temper on
the much abused footstool, which he kicked whenever it came in the line of
his march. In his soul he knew that Courtlandt was right. More than that,
he knew that presently he would seek him and apologize.
Unfortunately, neither of them counted on the colonel.
Without being quite conscious of the act, Abbott took down from the wall
an ancient dueling-pistol, cocked it, snapped it, and looked it over with
an interest that he had never before bestowed on it. And the colonel,
bursting into the studio, found him absorbed in the contemplation of this
old death-dealing instrument.
"Ha!" roared the old war dog. "Had an idea that something like this was
going to happen. Put that up. You couldn't kill anything with that unless
you hit 'em on the head with it. Leave the matter to me. I've a pair of
pistols, sighted to hit a shilling at twenty yards. Of course, you can't
fight him with swords. He's one of the best in all Italy. But you've just
as good a chance as he has with pistols. Nine times out of ten the tyro
hits the bull's-eye, while the crack goes wild. Just you sit jolly tight.
Who's his second; Courtlandt?"
"Yes." Abbott was truly and completely bewildered.
"He struck you first, I understand, and you knocked him down. Good! My
tennis-courts are out of the way. We can settle this matter to-morrow
morning at dawn. Ellicott will come over from Cadenabbia with his saws.
He's close-mouthed. All you need to do is to keep quiet. You can spend the
night at the villa with me, and I'll give you a few ideas about shooting a
pistol. Here; write what I dictate." He pushed Abbott over to the desk and
forced him into the chair. Abbott wrote mechanically, as one hypnotized.
The colonel seized the letter. "No flowery sentences; a few words bang at
the mark. Come up to the villa as soon as you can. We'll jolly well cool
this Italian's blood."
And out he went, banging the door. There was something of the directness
of a bullet in the old fellow's methods.
Literally, Abbott had been rushed off his feet. The moment his confusion
cleared he saw the predicament into which his own stupidity and the
amiable colonel's impetuous good offices had plunged him. He was
horrified. Here was Courtlandt carrying the apology, and hot on his heels
was the colonel, with the final arrangements for the meeting. He ran to
the door, bareheaded, took the stairs three and four at a bound. But the
energetic Anglo-Indian had gone down in bounds also; and when the
distracted artist reached the street, the other was nowhere to be seen.
Apparently there was nothing left but to send another apology. Rather than
perform so shameful and cowardly an act he would have cut off his hand.
The Barone, pale and determined, passed the second note to Courtlandt who
was congratulating himself (prematurely as will be seen) on the peaceful
dispersion of the war-clouds. He was dumfounded.
"You will excuse me," he said meekly. He must see Abbott.
"A moment," interposed the Barone coldly. "If it is to seek another
apology, it will be useless. I refuse to accept. Mr. Abbott will fight, or
I will publicly brand him, the first opportunity, as a coward."
Courtlandt bit his mustache. "In that case, I shall go at once to Colonel
Caxley-Webster."
"Thank you. I shall be in my room at the villa the greater part of the
day." The Barone bowed.
Courtlandt caught the colonel as he was entering his motor-boat.
"Come over to tiffin."
"Very well; I can talk here better than anywhere else."
When the motor began its racket, Courtlandt pulled the colonel over to
him.
"Do you know what you have done?"
"Done?" dropping his eye-glass.
"Yes. Knowing that Abbott would have no earthly chance against the
Italian, I went to him and forced him to write an apology. And you have
blown the whole thing higher than a kite."
The colonel's eyes bulged. "Dem it, why didn't the young fool tell me?"
"Your hurry probably rattled him. But what are we going to do? I'm not
going to have the boy hurt. I love him as a brother; though, just now, he
regards me as a mortal enemy. Perhaps I am," moodily. "I have deceived
him, and somehow--blindly it is true--he knows it. I am as full of deceit
as a pomegranate is of seeds."
"Have him send another apology."
"The Barone is thoroughly enraged. He would refuse to accept it, and said
so."
"Well, dem me for a well-meaning meddler!"
"With pleasure, but that will not stop the row. There is a way out, but it
appeals to me as damnably low."
"Oh, Abbott will not run. He isn't that kind."
"No, he'll not run. But if you will agree with me, honor may be satisfied
without either of them getting hurt."
"Women beat the devil, don't they? What's your plan?"
Courtlandt outlined it.
The colonel frowned. "That doesn't sound like you. Beastly trick."
"I know it."
"We'll lunch first. It will take a few pegs to get that idea through this
bally head of mine."
When Abbott came over later that day, he was subdued in manner. He laughed
occasionally, smoked a few cigars, but declined stimulants. He even played
a game of tennis creditably. And after dinner he shot a hundred billiards.
The colonel watched his hands keenly. There was not the slightest
indication of nerves.
"Hang the boy!" he muttered. "I ought to be ashamed of myself. There isn't
a bit of funk in his whole make-up."
At nine Abbott retired. He did not sleep very well. He was irked by the
morbid idea that the Barone was going to send the bullet through his
throat. He was up at five. He strolled about the garden. He realized that
it was very good to be alive. Once he gazed somberly at the little white
villa, away to the north. How crisply it stood out against the dark
foliage! How blue the water was! And far, far away the serene snowcaps!
Nora Harrigan ... Well, he was going to stand up like a man. She should
never be ashamed of her memory of him. If he went out, all worry would be
at an end, and that would be something. What a mess he had made of things!
He did not blame the Italian. A duel! he, the son of a man who had
invented wash-tubs, was going to fight a duel! He wanted to laugh; he
wanted to cry. Wasn't he just dreaming? Wasn't it all a nightmare out of
which he would presently awake?
"Breakfast, Sahib," said Rao, deferentially touching his arm.
He was awake; it was all true.
"You'll want coffee," began the colonel. "Drink as much as you like. And
you'll find the eggs good, too." The colonel wanted to see if Abbott ate
well.
The artist helped himself twice and drank three cups of coffee. "You know,
I suppose all men in a hole like this have funny ideas. I was just
thinking that I should like a partridge and a bottle of champagne."
"We'll have that for tiffin," said the colonel, confidentially. In fact,
he summoned the butler and gave the order.
"It's mighty kind of you, Colonel, to buck me up this way."
"Rot!" The colonel experienced a slight heat in his leathery cheeks. "All
you've got to do is to hold your arm out straight, pull the trigger, and
squint afterward."
"I sha'n't hurt the Barone," smiling faintly.
"Are you going to be ass enough to pop your gun in the air?" indignantly.
Abbott shrugged; and the colonel cursed himself for the guiltiest
scoundrel unhung.
Half an hour later the opponents stood at each end of the tennis-court.
Ellicott, the surgeon, had laid open his medical case. He was the most
agitated of the five men. His fingers shook as he spread out the lints and
bandages. The colonel and Courtlandt had solemnly gone through the
formality of loading the weapons. The sun had not climbed over the eastern
summits, but the snow on the western tops was rosy.
"At the word three, gentlemen, you will fire," said the colonel.
The two shots came simultaneously. Abbott had deliberately pointed his
into the air. For a moment he stood perfectly still; then, his knees
sagged, and he toppled forward on his face.
"Great God!" whispered the colonel; "you must have forgotten the ramrod!"
He, Courtlandt, and the surgeon rushed over to the fallen man. The Barone
stood like stone. Suddenly, with a gesture of horror, he flung aside his
smoking pistol and ran across the court.
"Gentlemen," he cried, "on my honor, I aimed three feet above his head."
He wrung his hands together in anxiety. "It is impossible! It is only that
I wished to see if he were a brave man. I shoot well. It is impossible!"
he reiterated.
Rapidly the cunning hand of the surgeon ran over Abbott's body. He finally
shook his head. "Nothing has touched him. His heart gave under. Fainted."
When Abbott came to his senses, he smiled weakly. The Barone was one of
the two who helped him to his feet.
"I feel like a fool," he said.
"Ah, let me apologize now," said the Barone. "What I did at the ball was
wrong, and I should not have lost my temper. I had come to you to
apologize then. But I am Italian. It is natural that I should lose my
temper," naïvely.
"We're both of us a pair of fools, Barone. There was always some one else.
A couple of fools."
"Yes," admitted the Barone eagerly.
"Considering," whispered the colonel in Courtlandt's ear; "considering
that neither of them knew they were shooting nothing more dangerous than
wads, they're pretty good specimens. Eh, what?"
CHAPTER XIX
COURTLANDT TELLS A STORY
The Colonel and his guests at luncheon had listened to Courtlandt without
sound or movement beyond the occasional rasp of feet shifting under the
table. He had begun with the old familiar phrase--"I've got a story."
"Tell it," had been the instant request.
At the beginning the men had been leaning at various negligent
angles,--some with their elbows upon the table, some with their arms
thrown across the backs of their chairs. The partridge had been excellent,
the wine delicious, the tobacco irreproachable. Burma, the tinkle of bells
in the temples, the strange pictures in the bazaars, long journeys over
smooth and stormy seas; romance, moving and colorful, which began at
Rangoon, had zigzagged around the world, and ended in Berlin.
"And so," concluded the teller of the tale, "that is the story. This man
was perfectly innocent of any wrong, a victim of malice on the one hand
and of injustice on the other."
"Is that the end of the yarn?" asked the colonel.
"Who in life knows what the end of anything is? This is not a story out of
a book." Courtlandt accepted a fresh cigar from the box which Rao passed
to him, and dropped his dead weed into the ash-bowl.
"Has he given up?" asked Abbott, his voice strangely unfamiliar in his own
ears.
"A man can struggle just so long against odds, then he wins or becomes
broken. Women are not logical; generally they permit themselves to be
guided by impulse rather than by reason. This man I am telling you about
was proud; perhaps too proud. It is a shameful fact, but he ran away.
True, he wrote letter after letter, but all these were returned unopened.
Then he stopped."
"A woman would a good deal rather believe circumstantial evidence than
not. Humph!" The colonel primed his pipe and relighted it. "She couldn't
have been worth much."
"Worth much!" cried Abbott. "What do you imply by that?"
"No man will really give up a woman who is really worth while, that is, of
course, admitting that your man, Courtlandt, is a man. Perhaps, though,
it was his fault. He was not persistent enough, maybe a bit spineless. The
fact that he gave up so quickly possibly convinced her that her
impressions were correct. Why, I'd have followed her day in and day out,
year after year; never would I have let up until I had proved to her that
she had been wrong."
"The colonel is right," Abbott approved, never taking his eyes off
Courtlandt, who was apparently absorbed in the contemplation of the bread
crumbs under his fingers.
"And more, by hook or crook, I'd have dragged in the other woman by the
hair and made her confess."
"I do not doubt it, Colonel," responded Courtlandt, with a dry laugh. "And
that would really have been the end of the story. The heroine of this
rambling tale would then have been absolutely certain of collusion between
the two."
"That is like a woman," the Barone agreed, and he knew something about
them. "And where is this man now?"
"Here," said Courtlandt, pushing back his chair and rising. "I am he." He
turned his back upon them and sought the garden.
Tableau!
"Dash me!" cried the colonel, who, being the least interested personally,
was first to recover his speech.
The Barone drew in his breath sharply. Then he looked at Abbott.
"I suspected it," replied Abbott to the mute question. Since the episode
of that morning his philosophical outlook had broadened. He had fought a
duel and had come out of it with flying colors. As long as he lived he was
certain that the petty affairs of the day were never again going to
disturb him.
"Let him be," was the colonel's suggestion, adding a gesture in the
direction of the casement door through which Courtlandt had gone. "He's as
big a man as Nora is a woman. If he has returned with the determination of
winning her, he will."
They did not see Courtlandt again. After a few minutes of restless
to-and-froing, he proceeded down to the landing, helped himself to the
colonel's motor-boat, and returned to Bellaggio. At the hotel he asked for
the duke, only to be told that the duke and madame had left that morning
for Paris. Courtlandt saw that he had permitted one great opportunity to
slip past. He gave up the battle. One more good look at her, and he would
go away. The odds had been too strong for him, and he knew that he was
broken.
When the motor-boat came back, Abbott and the Barone made use of it also.
They crossed in silence, heavy-hearted.
On landing Abbott said: "It is probable that I shall not see you again
this year. I am leaving to-morrow for Paris. It's a great world, isn't it,
where they toss us around like dice? Some throw sixes and others deuces.
And in this game you and I have lost two out of three."
"I shall return to Rome," replied the Barone. "My long leave of absence is
near its end."
"What in the world can have happened?" demanded Nora, showing the two
notes to Celeste. "Here's Donald going to Paris to-morrow and the Barone
to Rome. They will bid us good-by at tea. I don't understand. Donald was
to remain until we left for America, and the Barone's leave does not end
until October."
"To-morrow?" Dim-eyed, Celeste returned the notes.
"Yes. You play the fourth ballade and I'll sing from Madame. It will
be very lonesome without them." Nora gazed into the wall mirror and gave a
pat or two to her hair.
When the men arrived, it was impressed on Nora's mind that never had she
seen them so amiable toward each other. They were positively friendly. And
why not? The test of the morning had proved each of them to his own
individual satisfaction, and had done away with those stilted mannerisms
that generally make rivals ridiculous in all eyes save their own. The
revelation at luncheon had convinced them of the futility of things in
general and of woman in particular. They were, without being aware of the
fact, each a consolation to the other. The old adage that misery loves
company was never more nicely typified.
If Celeste expected Nora to exhibit any signs of distress over the
approaching departure, she was disappointed. In truth, Nora was secretly
pleased to be rid of these two suitors, much as she liked them. The Barone
had not yet proposed, and his sudden determination to return to Rome
eliminated this disagreeable possibility. She was glad Abbott was going
because she had hurt him without intention, and the sight of him was, in
spite of her innocence, a constant reproach. Presently she would have her
work, and there would be no time for loneliness.
The person who suffered keenest was Celeste. She was awake; the tender
little dream was gone; and bravely she accepted the fact. Never her agile
fingers stumbled, and she played remarkably well, from Beethoven, Chopin,
Grieg, Rubinstein, MacDowell. And Nora, perversely enough, sang from old
light opera.
When the two men departed, Celeste went to her room and Nora out upon the
terrace. It was after five. No one was about, so far as she could see. She
stood enchanted over the transformation that was affecting the mountains
and the lakes. How she loved the spot! How she would have liked to spend
the rest of her days here! And how beautiful all the world was to-day!
She gave a frightened little scream. A strong pair of arms had encircled
her. She started to cry out again, but the sound was muffled and blotted
out by the pressure of a man's lips upon her own. She struggled violently,
and suddenly was freed.
"If I were a man," she said, "you should die for that!"
"It was an opportunity not to be ignored," returned Courtlandt. "It is
true that I was a fool to run away as I did, but my return has convinced
me that I should have been as much a fool had I remained to tag you about,
begging for an interview. I wrote you letters. You returned them unopened.
You have condemned me without a hearing. So be it. You may consider that
kiss the farewell appearance so dear to the operatic heart," bitterly.
He addressed most of this to the back of her head, for she was already
walking toward the villa into which she disappeared with the proud air of
some queen of tragedy. She was a capital actress.
A heavy hand fell upon Courtlandt's shoulder. He was irresistibly drawn
right about face.
"Now, then, Mr. Courtlandt," said Harrigan, his eyes blue and cold as ice,
"perhaps you will explain?"
With rage and despair in his heart, Courtlandt flung off the hand and
answered: "I refuse!"
"Ah!" Harrigan stood off a few steps and ran his glance critically up and
down this man of whom he had thought to make a friend. "You're a husky
lad. There's one way out of this for you."
"So long as it does not necessitate any explanations," indifferently.
"In the bottom of one of Nora's trunks is a set of my old gloves. There
will not be any one up at the tennis-court this time of day. If you are
not a mean cuss, if you are not an ordinary low-down imitation of a man,
you'll meet me up there inside of five minutes. If you can stand up in
front of me for ten minutes, you need not make any explanations. On the
other hand, you'll hike out of here as fast as boats and trains can take
you. And never come back."
"I am nearly twenty years younger than you, Mr. Harrigan."
"Oh, don't let that worry you any," with a truculent laugh.
"Very well. You will find me there. After all, you are her father."
"You bet I am!"
