my speaking as honestly as I speak to you?"

"I know of none, Do you?"

I had been looking at her chilled pink fingers. My ring was gone.

"A ring for a rose is my only warrant," I said.

She continued to soap the linen and to scrub in silence. After she had
finished the garment and wrung it dry, she straightened her supple
figure where she was kneeling, and, turning toward me, searched in her
bosom with one little, wet hand, drawing from it a faded ribbon on
which my ring hung.

"Do you desire to have it of me again?" she asked, without any
expression on her sun-freckled face.

"What? The ring?"

"Aye! Desire it!" I repeated, turning red. "No more than you desire the
withered bud you left beside me while I slept."

"What bud, sir?"

"Did you not leave me a rose-bud?"

"I?"

"And a bit of silver birch-bark scratched with a knife point?"

"Now that I think of it, perhaps I may have done so--or some such
thing--scarce knowing what I was about--and being sleepy. What was it
that I wrote? I can not now remember--being so sleepy when I did it."

"And that is all you thought about it, Lois?"

"How can one think when half asleep''

"Here is your rose," I said angrily. "I will take my ring again."

She opened her grey eyes at that.

"Lord!" she murmured in an innocent and leisurely surprise. "You have
it still, my rose? Are roses scarce where you inhabit, sir? For if you
find the flower so rare and curious I would not rob you of it--no!"
And, bending, soaked and soaped another shirt.

"Why do you mock me, Lois?"

"I! Mock you! La! Sir, you surely jest."

"You do so! You have done so ever since we met. I ask you why?" I
repeated, curbing my temper.

"Lord!" she murmured, shaking her head. "The young man is surely going
stark! A girl in my condition--such a girl as I mock at an officer and
a gentleman? No, it is beyond all bounds; and this young man is
suffering from the sun."

"Were it not," said I angrily, "that common humanity brought me here
and bids me remain for the moment, I would not endure this."

"Heaven save us all!" she sighed. "How very young is this young man who
comes complaining here that he is mocked--when all I ventured was to
marvel that he had found a wild rose-bud so rare and precious!"

I said to myself: "Damn! Damn!" in fierce vexation, yet knew not how to
take her nor how to save my dignity. And she, with head averted, was
laughing silently; I could see that, too; and never in my life had I
been so flouted to my face.

"Listen to me!" I broke out bluntly. "I know not who or what you are,
why you are here, whither you are bound. But this I do know, that
beyond our pickets there is peril in these woods, and it is madness for
man or maid to go alone as you do."

The laughter had died out in her face. After a moment it became grave.

"Was it to tell me this that you spoke to me in the fort, Mr. Loskiel?"
she asked.

"Yes, Two days ago our pickets were fired on by Indians. Last night two
riflemen of our corps took as many Seneca scalps. Do you suppose that
when I heard of these affairs I did not think of you--remembering what
was done but yesterday at Cherry Valley?"

"Did you--remember--me?"

"Good God, yes!" I exclaimed, my nerves on edge again at the mere
memory of her rashness. "I came here as a comrade--wishing to be of
service, and--you have used me----"

"Vilely," she said, looking serenely at me.

"I did not say that, Lois----"

"I say it, Mr. Loskiel. And yet--I told you where to find me. That is
much for me to tell to any man. Let that count a little to my damaged
credit with you.... And--I still wear the ring you gave.... And left a
rose for you, Let these things count a little in my favour. For you can
scarcely guess how much of courage it had cost me." She knelt there,
her bared arms hanging by her side, the sun bright on her curls,
staring at me out of those strange, grey eyes.

"Since I have been alone," she said in a low voice, "no man--unless by
a miracle it be you--has offered me a service or a kindness except that
he awaited his reward. Soon or late their various songs became the same
familiar air. It is the only song I've heard from men--with endless
variations, truly, often and cunningly disguised--yet ever the same and
sorry theme.... Men are what God made them; God has seemed to fashion
me to their liking--I scarce know how--seeing I walk in rags, unkempt,
and stained with wind and rain, and leaf and earth and sun."

She made a childish gesture, sweeping the curls aside with both her
hands:

"I sheared my hair! Look at me, sir--a wild thing in a ragged shift and
tattered gown--all burnt and roughened with the sun and wind--not even
clean to look on--yet that I am!--and with no friend to speak to save
an Indian.... I ask you, sir, what it is in me--and what lack of pride
must lie in men that I can not trust myself to the company of one among
them--not one! Be he officer, or common soldier--all are the same."

She dropped her head, and, thoughtfully, her hands again crept up and
wandered over her cheeks and hair, the while her grey eyes, fixed and
remote, seemed lost in speculation. Then she looked up again:

"Why should I think to find you different?" she asked, "Is any man
different from his fellows, humble or great? Is it not man himself, not
only men, that I must face as I have faced you--with silence, or with
sullen speech, or with a hardness far beyond my years, and a gaiety
that means nothing more kind than insolence?"

Again her head fell on her breast, and her hands linked themselves on
her knees as she knelt there in silence.

"Lois," I said, trying to think clearly, "I do not know that other men
and I are different. Once I believed so. But--lately--I do not know.
Yet, I know this: selfish or otherwise, I can not endure the thought of
you in peril."

She looked at me very gravely; then dropped her head once more.

"I don't know," I said desperately, "I wish to be honest--tell you no
lie--tell none to myself. I--your beauty--has touched me--or whatever
it is about you that attracts. And, whatever gown you go in, I scarcely
see it--somehow--finding you so--so strangely--lovely--in speech
also--and in--every way.... And now that I have not lied to you--or to
myself--in spite of what I have said, let me be useful to you. For I
can be; and perhaps these other sentiments will pass away----"

She looked up so suddenly that I ceased speaking, fearful of a rebuff;
but saw only the grave, grey eyes looking straight into mine, and a
sudden, deeper colour waning from her cheeks.

"Whatever I am," said I, "I can be what I will. Else I were no man. If
your--beauty--has moved me, that need not concern you--and surely not
alarm you. A woman's beauty is her own affair. Men take their chance
with it--as I take mine with yours--that it do me no deep damage. And
if it do, or do not, our friendship is still another matter; for it
means that I wish you well, desire to aid you, ease your burdens, make
you secure and safe, vary your solitude with a friendly word--I mean,
Lois, to be to you a real comrade, if you will. Will you?"

After a moment she said:

"What was it that you said about my--beauty?"

"I take my chances that it do me no deep damage."

"Oh! Am I to take my chance, too?"

"What chance?"

"That--your kindness do me--no damage?"

"What senseless talk is this you utter?"

She shook her head slowly, then:

"What a strange boy! I do not fear you."

"Fear me?" I repeated, flushing hotly. "What is there to fear? I am
neither yokel nor beast."

"They say a gentleman should be more dreaded."

I stared at her, then laughed:

"Ask yourself how far you need have dread of me--when, if you desire
it, you can leave me dumb, dismayed, lip-bound by your mocking
tongue--which God knows well I fear."

"Is my tongue so bitter then? I did not know it."

"I know it," said I with angry emphasis. "And I tell you very freely
that----"

She stole a curious glance at me. Something halted me--an expression I
had never yet seen there in her face, twitching at her lips--hovering
on them now--parting them in a smile so sweet and winning that,
silenced by the gracious transformation, unexpected, I caught my
breath, astonished.

"What is your given name?" she asked, still dimpling at me, and her
eyes now but two blue wells of light.

"Euan," I said, foolish as a flattered schoolboy, and as awkward.

"Euan," she said, still smiling at me, "I think that I could be your
friend--if you do truly wish it. What is it you desire of me? Ask me
once more, and make it very clear and plain."

"Only your confidence; that is all I ask."

"Oh! Is that all you ask of me?" she mimicked mockingly; but so sweet
her smile, and soft her voice, that I did not mind her words.

"Remember," said I, "that I am older than you. You are to tell me all
that troubles you."

"When?"

"Now."

"No. I have my washing to complete, And you must go. Besides, I have
mending, darning, and my knitting yet to do. It all means bed and bait
to me."

"Will you not tell me why you are alone here, Lois?"

"Tell you what? Tell you why I loiter by our soldiers' camps like any
painted drab? I will tell you this much; I need no longer play that
shameless role."

"You need not use those words in the same breath when speaking of
yourself," I answered hotly.

"Then--you do not credit ill of me?" she asked, a bright but somewhat
fixed and painful smile on her red lips.

"No!" said I bluntly. "Nor did I ever."

"And yet I look the part, and seem to play it, too. And still you
believe me honest?"

"I know you are."

"Then why should I be here alone--if I am honest, Euan?"

"I do not know; tell me."

"But--are you quite certain that you do not ask because you doubt me?"

I said impatiently: "I ask, knowing already you are good above
reproach. I ask so I may understand how best to aid you."

A lovely colour stole into her cheeks.

"You are kind, Euan. And it is true--though--" and she shrugged her
shoulders, "what other man would credit it?" She lifted her head a
little and looked at me with clear, proud eyes:

"Well, let them say what they may in fort and barracks twixt this
frontier and Philadelphia. The truth remains that I have been no man's
mistress and am no trull. Euan, I have starved that I might remain
exactly what I am at this moment. I swear to you that I stand here
unsullied and unstained under this untainted sky which the same God
made who fashioned me. I have known shame and grief and terror; I have
lain cold and ill and sleepless; I have wandered roofless, hunted,
threatened, mocked, beset by men and vice. Soldiers have used me
roughly--you yourself saw, there at the Poundridge barracks! And only
you among all men saw truly. Why should I not give to you my
friendship, unashamed?"

"Give it," I said, more deeply moved than ever I had been.

"I do! I do! Rightly or wrongly, now, at last, and in the end, I give
my honest heart and friendship to a man!" And with a quick and winning
gesture she offered me her hand; and I took it firmly in my clasp, and
fell a-trembling so I could not find a word to utter.

"Come to me to-night, Euan," she said. "I lodge yonder. There is a poor
widow there--a Mrs. Rannock--who took me in. They killed her husband in
November. I am striving to repay her for the food and shelter she
affords me. I have been given mending and washing at the fort. You see
I am no leech to fasten on a body and nourish me for nothing. So I do
what I am able. Will you come to me this night?"

"Yes." But I could not yet speak steadily.

"Come then; I--I will tell you something of my miserable condition--if
you desire to know.... Truly I think, speaking to no one, this long and
unhappy silence has eaten and corroded part of me within--so ill am I
at moments with the pain and shame I've borne so long--so long, Euan!
Ah--you do not--know.... And it may be that when you do come to-night I
have repented of my purposes--locked up my wounded heart again. But I
shall try to tell you--something. For I need somebody--need kindly
council very sorely, Euan. And even the Sagamore now fails me--on the
threshold----"

"What?"

"He means it for the best; he fears for me. I will tell you how it is
with me when you come to-night. I truly desire to tell you--I--I need
to tell you. Will you come to me?"

"On my honour, Lois."

"Then--if you please, will you leave me now? I must do my washing and
mending--and----" she smiled, "if you only knew how desperately I need
what money I may earn. My garments, Euan, are like to fall from me if
these green cockspur thorns give way."

"But, Lois," I said, "I have brought you money!" And I fished from any
hunting shirt a great, thick packet of those poor paper dollars, now in
such contempt that scarce five hundred of them counted for a dozen
good, hard shillings.

"What are you doing?" she said, so coldly that I ceased counting the
little squares of currency and looked up at her surprised.

"I am sharing my pay with you," said I. "I have no silver--only these."

"I can not take--money!"

"What?"

"Did you suppose I could?"

"Comrades have a common purse; Why not?"

For a few moments her face wore the same strange expression, then, of a
sudden her eyes filled and closed convulsively, and she turned her
head, motioning me to leave her.

"Will you not share with me?" I asked, very hot about the ears.

She shook her head and I saw her shoulders heave once or twice.

"Lois," I said gravely, "did you fear I hoped for some--reward?
Child--little comrade--only the happiness of aiding you is what I ask
for. Share with me then, I beg you. I am not poor."

"No--I can not, Euan," she answered in a stifled voice. "Is there any
shame to you in sharing with me?"

"Wait," she whispered. "Wait till you hear. And--thank you--for--your
kindness."

"I will be here to-night," I said. "And when we know each other better
we will share a common purse."

She did not answer me.

I lingered for a moment, desiring to reassure and comfort her, but knew
not how. And so, as she did not turn, I finally went away through the
sunlit willows, leaving her kneeling there alone beside the golden
pool, her bright head drooping and her hands still covering her face.

As I walked back slowly to the fort, I pondered how to be of aid to
her; and knew not how. Had there been the ladies of any officers with
the army now, I should have laid her desperate case before them; but
all had gone back to Albany before our scout of three returned from
Westchester.

Here on the river, within our lines, while the army remained, she would
be safe enough from forest peril. Yet I burned and raged to think of
the baser peril ever threatening her among men of her own speech and
colour. I suppose, considering her condition, they had a right to think
her that which she was not and never had been. For honesty and maiden
virtue never haunted camps. Only two kinds of women tramped with
regiments--the wives of soldiers, and their mistresses.

Yet, somehow her safety must be now arranged, her worth and virtue
clearly understood, her needs and dire necessities made known, so that
when our army moved she might find a shelter, kind and respectable,
within the Middle Fort, or at Schenectady, or anywhere inside our lines.

My pay was small; yet, having no soul dependent on my bounty and
needing little myself, I had saved these pitiable dollars that our
Congress paid us. Besides, I had a snug account with my solicitor in
Albany. She might live on that. I did not need it; seldom drew a penny;
my pay more than sufficing. And, after the war had ended--ended----

Just here my heart beat out o' step, and thought was halted for a
moment. But with the warm thought and warmer blood tingling me once
again, I knew and never doubted that we had not done with one another
yet, nor were like to, war or no war. For in all the world, and through
all the years of youth, I had never before encountered any woman who
had shared with me my waking thoughts and the last and conscious moment
ere I slept. But from the time I lost this woman out of my life,
something seemed also missing from the world. And when again I found
her, life and the world seemed balanced and well rounded once again.
And in my breast a strange calm rested me.

As I walked along the rutty lake road, all hatched and gashed by the
artillery, I made up my mind to one matter. "She must have clothes!"
thought I, "and that's flat!" Perhaps not such as befitted her, but
something immediate, and not in tatters--something stout that
threatened not to part and leave her naked. For the brier-torn rags she
wore scarce seemed to hold together; and her small, shy feet peeped
through her gaping shoon in snowy hide-and-seek.

Now, coming hither from the fort, I had already noticed on the
Stoney-Kill where our Oneidas lay encamped. So when I sighted the first
painted tree and saw the stone pipe hanging, I made for it, and found
there the Indians smoking pipes and not in war paint; and their women
and children were busy with their gossip, near at hand.

As I had guessed, there by the fire lay a soft and heavy pack of
doeskins, open, and a pretty Oneida matron sewing Dutch wampum on a
painted sporran for her warrior lord.

The lean and silent warriors came up as I approached, sullenly at
first, not knowing what treatment to expect--more shame to the skin we
take our pride in!

One after another took the hand I offered in self-respecting silence.

"Brothers," I said, "I come to buy. Sooner or later your young men will
put on red paint and oil their bodies. Even now I see your rifles and
your hatchets have been polished. Sooner or later the army will move
four hundred miles through a wilderness so dark that neither sun nor
moon nor stars can penetrate. The old men, the women, the children, and
the littlest ones still strapped to the cradle-board, must then remain
behind. Is it the truth I speak, my brothers?"

"It is the truth," they answered very quietly, "Then," said I, "they
will require food and money to buy with. Is it not true, Oneidas?"

"It is true, brother."

I smiled and turned toward the women who were listening, and who now
looked up at me with merry faces.

"I have," said I, "four hundred dollars. It is for the Oneida maid or
matron who will sell to me her pretty bridal dress of doeskin--the
dress which she has made and laid aside and never worn. I buy her
marriage dress. And she will make another for herself against the hour
of need."

Two or three girls leaped laughing to their feet; but, "Wait!" said I.
"This is for my little sister; and I must judge you where you stand,
Oneida forest flowers, so I may know which one among you is most like
my little sister in height and girth and narrow feet."

"Is our elder brother's little sister fat and comely?" inquired one
giggling and over-plump Oneida maid.

"Not plump," I said; and they all giggled.

Another short one stood on tip-toe, asking bashfully if she were not
the proper height to suit me.

But there was a third, graceful and slender, who had risen with the
rest, and who seemed to me nearer a match to Lois. Also, her naked,
dusky feet were small and shapely.

At a smiling nod from me she hastened into the family lodge and
presently reappeared with the cherished clothing. Fresh and soft and
new, she cast the garments on the moss and spread them daintily and
proudly to my view for me to mark her wondrous handiwork. And it was
truly pretty--from the soft, wampum-broidered shirt with its hanging
thrums, to the clinging skirt and delicate thigh-moccasins, wonderfully
fringed with purple and inset in most curious designs with painted
quills and beads and blue diamond-fronds from feathers of a little
jay-bird's wing.

Bit by bit I counted out the currency; and it took some little time.
But when it was done she took it eagerly enough, laughing her thanks
and dancing away toward her lodge. And if her dusky sisters envied her
they smiled on me no less merrily as I took my leave of them. And very
courteously a stately chief escorted me to the campfire's edge. The
Oneidas were ever gentlemen; and their women gently bred.

Once more at my own hut door, I entered, with a nod to Mayaro, who sat
smoking there in freshened war paint. One quick and penetrating glance
he darted at the Oneida garment on my arm, but except for that betrayed
no curiosity.

"Well, Mayaro," said I, in excellent spirits, "you still wear war paint
hopefully, I see. But this army will never start within the week."

The Siwanois smiled to himself and smoked. Then he passed the pipe to
me. I drew it twice, rendered it.

"Come," said I, "have you then news that we take the war-trail soon?"

"The war-trail is always open for those who seek it. When my younger
brother makes ready for a trail, does he summon it to come to him by
magic, or does he seek it on his two legs?"

"Are you hoping to go out with the scout to-night?" I asked. "That
would not do."

"I go to-night with my brother Loskiel--to take the air," he said slyly.

"That may not be," I protested, disconcerted. "I have business abroad
to-night."

"And I," he said very seriously; but he glanced again at the pretty
garments on my arm and gave me a merry look.

"Yes," said I, smilingly, "they are for her. The little lady hath no
shoon, no skirt that holds together, save by the grace of cockspur
thorns that bind the tatters. Those I have bought of an Oneida girl.
And if they do not please her, yet these at least will hold together.
And I shall presently write a letter to Albany and send it by the next
batteau to my solicitor, who will purchase for her garments far more
suitable, and send them to the fort where soon, I trust, she will be
lodged in fashion more befitting."

The Sagamore's face had become smooth and expressionless. I laid aside
the garments, fished out quill and inkhorn, and, lying flat on the
ground, wrote my letter to Albany, describing carefully the maid who
was to be fitted, her height, the smallness of her waist and foot as
well as I remembered. I wrote, too, that she was thin, but not too
thin. Also I bespoke a box of French hair-powder for her, and buckled
shoes of Paddington, and stockings, and a kerchief.

"You know better than do I," I wrote, "having a sister to care for, how
women dress. They should have shifts, and hair-pegs, and a scarf, and
fan, and stays, and scent, and hankers, and a small laced hat, not
gilded; cloak, foot-mantle, sun-mask, and a chip hat to tie beneath the
chin, and one such as they call after the pretty Mistress Gunning. If
women wear banyans, I know not, but whatever they do wear in their own
privacy at morning chocolate, in the French fashion, and whatever they
do sleep in, buy and box and send to me. And all the money banked with
you, put it in her name as well as mine, so that her draughts on it may
all be honoured. And this is her name----"

I stopped, dismayed, I did not know her name! And I was about to sign
for her full power to share my every penny! Yet, my amazing madness did
not strike me as amazing or grotesque, that, within the hour, a maid in
a condition such as hers was to divide my tidy fortune with me. Nay,
more--for when I signed this letter she would be free to take what she
desired and even leave me destitute.

I laughed at the thought--so midsummer mad was I upon that sunny July
afternoon; and within me, like a hidden thicket full of birds, my heart
was singing wondrous tunes I never knew one note of.

"O Sagamore," I said, lifting my head, "tell me her surname now,
because I need it for this business. And I forgot to ask her at the
Spring Waiontha."

For a full minute the Indian's countenance turned full on me remained
moon-blank. Then, like lightning, flashed his smile.

"Loskiel, my friend, and now my own blood-brother, what magic singing
birds have so enchanted your two ears. She is but a child, lonely and
ragged--a tattered leaf still green, torn from the stem by storm and
stress, blown through the woodlands and whirled here and yonder by
every breath of wind. Is it fit that my brother Loskiel should notice
such a woman?"

"She is in need, my brother."

"Give, and pass on, Loskiel."

"That is not giving, O my brother."

"Is it to give alone, Loskiel? Or is it to give--that she may render
all?"

"Yes, honestly to give. Not to take."

"And yet you know her not, Loskiel."

"But I shall know her yet! She has so promised. If she is friendless,
she shall be our friend. For you and I are one, O Sagamore! If she is
cold, naked, or hungry, we will build for her a fire, and cover her,
and give her meat. Our lodge shall be her lodge; our friends hers, her
enemies ours. I know not how this all has come to me, Mayaro, my
friend--even as I know not how your friendship came to me, or how now
our honour is lodged forever in each other's keeping. But it is true.
Our blood has made us of one race and parentage."

"It is the truth," he said.

"Then tell me her name, that I may write it to my friend in Albany."

"I do not know it," he said quietly.

"She never told you?"

"Never," he said. "Listen, Loskiel. What I now tell to you with heart
all open and my tongue unloosened, is all I know of her. It was in
winter that she came to Philipsburgh, all wrapped in her red cloak. The
White Plains Indians were there, and she was ever at their camp asking
the same and endless question."

"What question, Mayaro?"

"That I shall also tell you, for I overheard it. But none among the
White Plains company could answer her; no, nor no Congress soldier that
she asked.

"The soldiers were not unkind; they offered food and fire--as soldiers
do, Loskiel," he added, with a flash of Contempt for men who sought
what no Siwanois, no Iroquois, ever did seek of any maiden or any
chaste and decent woman, white or red.

"I know," I said. "Continue."

"I offered shelter," he said simply. "I am a Siwanois. No women need to
dread Mohicans. She learned this truth from me for the first time, I
think. Afterward, pitying her, I watched her how she went from camp to
camp. Some gave her mending to do, some washing, enabling her to live.
I drew clothing and arms and rations as a Hudson guide enrolled, and
together she and I made out to live. Then, in the spring, Major
Lockwood summoned me to carry intelligence between the lines. And she
came with me, asking at every camp the same strange question; and ever
the soldiers laughed and plagued and courted her, offering food and
fire and shelter--but not the answer to her question. And one day--the
day you came to Poundridge-town--and she had sought for me through that
wild storm--I met her by the house as I came from North Castle with
news of horsemen riding in the rain."

He leaned forward, looking at me steadily.

"Loskiel," he said, "when first I heard your name from her, and that it
was you who wanted Mayaro, suddenly it seemed to me that magic was
being made. And--I myself gave her her answer--the answer to the
question she had asked at every camp."

"Good God!" said I, "did you, then know the answer all the while? And
never told her?" But at the same moment I understood how perfectly
characteristic of an Indian had been his conduct.

"I knew," he said tranquilly, "but I did not know why this maiden
wished to know. Therefore was I silent."

"Why did you not ask her?" But before he spake I knew why too.

"Does a Sagamore ask idle questions of a woman?" he said coldly. "Do
the Siwanois babble?"

"No. And yet--and yet----"

"Birds sing, maidens chatter. A Mohican considers ere his tongue is
loosed."

"Aye--it is your nature, Sagamore.... But tell me--what was it in the
mention of my name that made you think of magic?"

"Loskiel, you came two hundred miles to ask of me the question that
this maid had asked in every camp."

"What question?"

"Where lay the trail to Catharines-town," he said.

"Did she ask that?" I demanded in astonishment.

"It was ever the burden of her piping--this rosy-throated pigeon of the
woods."

"That is most strange," said I.

"It is doubtless sorcery that she should ask of me an interview with
you who came two hundred miles to ask of me the very question."

"But, Mayaro, she did not then know why I had come to seek you."

"I knew as quickly as I heard your name."

"How could you know before you saw me and I had once made plain my
business?"

"Birds come and go; but eagles see their natal nest once more before
they die."

"I do not understand you, Mayaro."

He made no answer.

"Merely to hear my name from this child's lips, you say you guessed my
business with you?"

"Surely, Loskiel--surely. It was all done by magic. And, at once, I
knew that I should also speak to her, there in the storm, and answer
her her question."

"And did you do so?"

"Yes, Loskiel. I said to her: 'Little sad rosy-throated pigeon of the
woods, the vale Yndaia lies by a hidden river in the West. Some call it
Catharines-town.'"

I shook my head, perplexed, and understanding nothing.

"Yndaia? Did you say Yndaia, Mayaro?"

Then, as he looked me steadily in the eye, my gaze became uneasy,
shifted, fell by an accident upon the blood-red bear reared on his hind
legs, pictured upon his breast. And through and through me passed a
shock, like the dull thrill of some forgotten thing clutched suddenly
by memory--yet clutched in vain.

Vain was the struggle, too, for the faint gleam passed from my mind as
it had come; and if the name Yndaia had disturbed me, or seeing the
scarlet ensign on his breast, or perhaps both coupled, had seemed to
stir some distant memory, I did not know. Only it seemed as though, in
mental darkness, I had felt the presence of some living and familiar
thing--been conscious of its nearness for an instant ere it had
vanished utterly.

The Sagamore's face had become a smooth, blank mask again.

"What has this maid, Lois, to do with Catharines-town?" I asked.
"Devils live there in darkness."

"She did not say."

"You do not know?"

"No, Loskiel."

"But," said I, troubled, "why did she journey hither?"

"Because she now believes that only I in all the world could guide her
to the vale Yndaia; and that one day I will pity her and take her
there."

"Doubtless," I said anxiously, "she has heard at the forts or
hereabouts that we are to march on Catharines-town."

"She knows it now, Loskiel"

"And means to follow?" I exclaimed in horror.

"My brother speaks the truth."

"God! What urges the child thither?"

"I do not know, Loskiel. It seems as though a madness were upon her
that she must go to Catharines-town. I tell you there is sorcery in all
this. I say it--I, a Sagamore of the Enchanted Wolf. Who should know
magic when it stirs but I, of the Siwanois--the Magic Clan? Say what
you will, my comrade and blood-brother, there is sorcery abroad; and
well I know who wrought it, spinning with spiders' webs there by the
lost Lake of Kendaia----" He shuddered slightly. "There by the black
waters of the lake--that hag--and all her spawn!"

"Catharine Montour!"

"The Toad-woman herself--and all her spawn."

"The Senecas?"

"And the others," he said in a low voice.

A sudden and terrible misgiving assailed me. I swallowed, and then said
slowly:

"Two scalps were taken late last night by Murphy and Elerson. And the
scalps were not of the Mohawk. Not Oneida, nor Onondaga, nor Cayuga.
Mayaro!" I gasped. "So help me God, those scalps are never Seneca!"

"Erie!" he exclaimed with a mixture of rage and horror. And I saw his
sinewy hand quivering on his knife-hilt. "Listen, Loskiel! I knew it!
No one has told me. I have sat here all the day alone, making my steel
bright and my paint fresher, and singing to myself my people's songs.
And ever as I sat at the lodge door, something in the summer wind
mocked at me and whispered to me of demons. And when I rose and stood
at gaze, troubled, and minding every river-breeze, faintly I seemed to
scent the taint of evil. If those two scalps be Erie, then where the
Cat-People creep their Sorcerer will be found."

"Amochol," I repeated under my breath. And shivered.

For, deep in the secret shadows of that dreadful place where this vile
hag, Catharine Montour, ruled it in Catharines-town, dwelt also all
that now remained of the Cat-Nation--Eries--People of the Cat--a dozen,
it was rumoured, scarcely more--and demons all, serving that horrid
warlock, Amochol, the Sorcerer of the Senecas.

What dreadful rites this red priest and his Eries practiced there, none
knew, unless it were true that the False Faces knew. But rumour
whispered with a thousand tongues of horrors viewless, nameless,
inconceivable; and that far to the westward Biskoonah yawned, so close
indeed to the world's surface that the waters boiling deep in hell
burst into burning fountains in the magic garden where the red priest
made his sorcery, alone.

These things I had heard, but vaguely, here and there--a word perhaps
at Johnson Hall, a whisper at Fort Johnson, rumours discussed at Guy
Park and Schenectady when I was young. But ever the same horror of it
filled me, though I believed it not, knowing full well there were no
witches, sorcerers, or warlocks in the world; yet, in my soul disturbed
concerning what might pass deep in the shadows of that viewless Empire.

"Mayaro," I said seriously, "do you go instantly to the fort and view
those scalps."

"Were the braids fastened at the roots with tree-cat claws?"

"Aye!"
