“ Oh, you’re a darling ! ” and Rilla kissed him. 

I told him we were going to have a window 
garden next year, and he said such a funny thing,” 
and the boy laughed. ‘‘ ‘ There was a man over to 
Grafton who married a woman with eight chil- 
dren. I wonder if you are one of them.’ ” 

‘‘How could he have guessed?” 

“ Well, I had told him my name the day before. 
And then he asked about us, and said Mr. Mann 
must have been uncommon fond of children to 
shoulder the whole eight. People seem to think 
eight so many, don’t they? ” 

“ I used almost to wish the twins had not come, 
and it was so hard to take care of two babies, with 
father dead and all, but Lai is so sweet and cun- 




ning and our new father is so fond of her. And 
Miss Raynor said Rhoda was the smartest child of 
her age that she had ever seen.” 

She is too smart,” laughed Linn. Oh, how 
different we are ! ” 

Then Rilla found a tall glass vase and put the 
flowers in water, but they decided not to bring 
them to the table, but to keep them out there 
where it was cooler. 

There was a ring at the doorbell, and Linn 
opened the door. 

It was Mr. Evans. 

“ I hardly thought the folks would be home,” he 
began, but I was passing by ” 

Lm so glad,” exclaimed Chan, who was sit- 
ting at the piano. “ Won’t you please sing this 
measure through with me? I’m afraid I have it a 
little wrong.” 

They went over it several times, and Linn told 
about the post-cards and letters. And when Mr. 
Evans said he must go, Chan besought him to 
stay to dinner, and even Rilla added her persua- 
sion. 

But I might inconvenience Mrs. Alden.” 

Amaryllis went to inquire. '' We ought to have 
asked you first,” with rising color. 

‘‘ Never mind, dear. You are going to be the 




young lady of the house. Go and tell Mr. Evans 
that I shall be pleased to have him stay to dinner.” 

“ Em glad,” began Tip, “ for it’s awful lone- 
some not to have had any mother or father for 
five years.” 

Five days, you mean,” corrected Marigold. 

“ No, I mean five years,” decisively. Every 
day has been a year long, and that makes it,” 
glancing around in triumph. 

“And have you grown five years older?” in- 
quired Mr. Evans with a lurking smile. 

Tip was nonplussed for a moment. 

“ It’s this way, you see. It isn’t the outside 
years with winter and summer, but the clock beat- 
ing inside of you, and it takes a great many hours 
to fill up the days when you are waiting and 
waiting. They turn into years.” 

“ Pretty well reasoned out, Tippecanoe. I 
think you will make a philosopher.” 

They had a merry time at the dinner, spicing it 
with conundrums. Prim asked a funny one that 
they all gave up. 

“ I really don’t know myself,” she acknowledged 
gravely. “ It popped into my head before I had 
time to think up an answer. .If one of you gave a 
good one I was prepared to adopt it at once. 
Some day I may write a book of conundrums.” 





Or poems/’ interposed Linn. I am afraid 
your superlative genius may peter out with high 
living and everyday thinking. You ought to 
celebrate the return of the travelers, and our joys 
and sorrows, hopes and fears.” 

“ Oh, yes, do. Miss Primrose,” pleaded Mr. 
Evans. 

“ But they have not returned yet.” 

“ Then our sorrows.” 

Prim turned very red. “ I’ve been studying 
Lear’s ‘ Nonsense Verses,’ but somehow my 
Pegasus won’t trot at that fascinating pace.” 

Your own will be better. Please do,” from 
Mr. Evans. 

It’s all foolishness, you know ” 

'' Oh, Prim, don’t be silly ! Go on,” com- 
manded Linn. 

“Eight little orphan babes are we, 

Father and mother gone to see " 

That’s too big a poetic license,” interrupted 
Chan. “ They have not as much as said ‘ how-de- 
do ’ to a boat, let alone the sea.” 

“ Cities and towns and many a thing 
That can to the wise enjoyment bring, — ” 

she went on triumphantly, while Mr. Evans’ 
eyes had a mirthful twinkle as he looked over to 

Chan. 





“ No one will find us in the wood, 

No one will cover us warm and good, 

No little birds will come and sing, 

Or berries or rose leaves kindly bring; 

’Cause we’ll be safe at home, you see, 

When they come back to you and me. 

And now the machine has run down, beloved 
audience. I read the other day that when you had 
used up a brain cell it died out. I couldn’t under- 
stand whether a new one grew in its place, but if 
it doesn’t, that’s the knell of my departing genius.” 

Oh, let us hope it will grow again, and the 
next time I come you will be ready to celebrate 
some other event.” 

Oh, Mr. Evans, please don’t make fun of us. 
In the benighted region of Denby we did 
ridiculous things to entertain each other, and we 
haven’t reached the point of Grafton ways and 
manners.” 

Mr. Evans laughed heartily. “ I have been 
wonderfully well entertained, and thank you for it. 
I must have you all over to the rectory to tea 
some time, and you must be on your j oiliest be- 
havior.” 

But wouldn’t we set Miss Evans crazy ? ” 
asked Linn. 

‘‘ I will prepare her beforehand. And now, 
orphan babies, I leave you with great regret, but 





duty calls. Present my congratulations to your 
parents when they return from the dangers that 
beset the unwary traveler and meet with the 
delightful welcome you will give them.” 

Mr. Evans rose and bowed in a grandiose 
manner, and they all rose as well. 

“ He’s splendid,” began Marigold. “ Prim, 
how can you think up such funny nonsense? I 
had to study to get my two lines in that ‘ Mon- 
arch of all I survey ’ business, and then I wrote 
it out, for I knew I never could do it a second 
time.” 

You can get so close to Mr. Evans,” said 
Chan. He seems to understand boys — children 
— and somehow you feel a little afraid of Mr. 
Burnham — well, not quite that, either — but Mr. 
Evans is like a big brother.” 

Cap put the table in order while they adjourned 
to the library. The twins had been playing out- 
of-doors, and now a small, languid voice piped up, 
I so sleepy, I wis’ I could go to bed.” 

“ And not see mother? ” 

“ Mother’ll stay till to-morrow,” and Laurel 
fixed a cushion for a pillow. 

“ I’m going to stay up,” announced Rhoda. “ I 
want to see mother and father, and maybe they’ll 
bring us something.” 



Oh, Rhoda, you are always thinking of the 
loaves and fishes,” Goldie said reprovingly. 

I don’t want fishes, neither, and Cap can make 
bread. I want something nice.” 

“ I just want them to bring themselves,” de- 
clared Primrose. 

Amaryllis put her little sister to bed. Tip 
crawled up in the corner of the sofa. Chan set- 
tled himself at his beloved piano. He never 
played noisily. 

Linn, would you have gone to the party if 
mother had been home ? ” Rilla asked presently. 

“ Why, yes, I think so. They’ll have a jolly 
time. Oh, Rilla, I’ll be glad when you go to 
school and get to know girls of your own age. 
It’s so different from Denby, ever so much nicer. 
I like Jennie Read, and she’s a good student — full 
of fun, too.” 

“ I’m almost afraid, though the girls are nice in 
Sunday-school.” 

You must not feel that way. Rilla, you have 
improved ever so much, and now you don’t have 
to be mother to us all. It does make a difference 
when you live in a nice house and a pretty town. 
But I don’t want us to be stuck up, as Denby folks 
say.” 

Prim was looking up some big words in the die- 




tionary. Rhoda played a little while, then leaned 
up in the corner and kept staring at various things. 
She wasn’t a bit sleepy, but by and by everything 
seemed to rush downhill, and though she clutched 
at something she toppled over also. 

They kept watching the clock and listening. 
Were moments ever so slow! Oh, there was the 
trot of the horse, and they all rushed out on the 
porch. 

They almost smothered their mother. Oh, 
children, children I ” but the clinging arms and 
fond kisses were delightful when one had been 
without five days. 

Tip roused and began to cry, “ Why didn’t some 
one wake me up ? ” 

“ Never mind, now. You are awake, and here 
is mother.” 

Prim and Chan were hanging on to their father. 
What a welcome it was — worth more than any 
fortune ! 

Rhoda slept on serenely. Even when Mr. 
Mann picked her up her head dropped on his 
shoulder. 

Carry her upstairs,” said the mother, and I’ll 
lay aside my wraps. Rilla, will you come and help 
undress her? Then we’ll have a cup of tea and 
some talk.” 




And there’s a lovely surprise for you,” said 
Prim. Hurry down again.” 

Rhoda made no demur at being undressed. 
And there was darling little Lai, sweet and rosy. 
Mrs. Mann was very tired, and would have liked 
to drop down beside her, but she smoothed her 
hair and wiped the dust of travel off her face. 

The children were in the hall and escorted them 
through to the dining-room. They were to be 
company to-night, and she was to sit by father. 
There was her sweet bouquet. 

“ Oh, how delightful ! ” and she glanced around. 

“ It is due to Linn,” declared Amaryllis. You 
see, we were not used to having flowers in winter, 
and he brought them from Ridgewood, but next 
time we’ll join.” 

Thank you, my son,” and her smile repaid 
him, but Prim added an amusing little speech. 

Yes, we had a splendid time,” said their 
father. To-morrow your mother will tell you 
about it. She is very tired now. And we are so 
glad to find you all well and happy, and that you 
haven’t worn Mrs. Alden to a thread, nor driven 
away Cap by some of your misdemeanors.” 

Cap was as full of delight as the children. 

They have been very good,” said Mrs. Alden. 

I think you can venture on another journey.” 




But not in a long, long while,” cried Goldie. 

They told her about Tip’s five years, and could 
have talked all night, they were so glad and ex- 
cited, but it was near midnight, so they kissed all 
round and trooped upstairs to bed, thinking how 
they would welcome to-morrow. 


CHAPTER XV 


MR. COLLAMORE 

The little mother found the next day that the 
house had gone on very well without her, and that 
Cap’s lamentations were quite amusing. The 
work had been done up so well that Cap said it 
didn’t seem a bit like Saturday. There was a 
shelf full of pies, and the cake-box hardly allowed 
the cover to shut down tight. 

It was a hardship for Mr. Mann to go to the 
city and leave the joyous throng. No one wished 
to go with him ; even Dan lost his fascination ; and 
when the box came up by express they were all 
hovering round to view its contents. 

There were a number of splendid photographs 
and illustrated books; a very beautiful vase that 
made Amaryllis’s eyes sparkle with joy; then a set 
of dainty cups and saucers so well packed that no 
misfortune had befallen them. 

Yes, she had been here and there in Phila- 
delphia, and seen some of the beautiful places, and 
had a drive in the Park, in which clumps of beauti- 






ful evergreens took off the cheerlessness. Rhoda 
was quite indignant that she had not been com- 
pletely waked up. Laurel kept hold of her 
mother’s gown, saying frequently : 

“ I’s so glad you come back, Mommy.” 

The day was very fine. Dan went at some 
clearing up and rose trimming, uncovering some 
of the hardier plants. The snow man had been 
battered so much that now he was merely a heap, 
a poor remnant of former greatness. The chil- 
dren found some more snowdrops and violets. 

'Mf this weather holds on I’ll make a pansy 
hotbed next week,” he said. 

There are so many beautiful things that I am 
all impatience to see them bloom,” said Marigold 
as they were out taking an inventory. 

Mr. Gedney had spared no money, certainly. 
Besides the shrubbery, there were two large oval 
rosebeds whose stalks proclaimed their thriftiness. 

Can’t we all have a little garden to our- 
selves ? ” asked Linn. 

Mr. Mann was out with them. 

Why, yes,” he made answer. Suppose each 
of you took a plot and raised one thing. I like 
masses. Rilla, you shall have first choice. What 
will it be?” 

“ I like China pinks. There is such a variety to 




them. I had a few last summer. They bloom 
and bloom.’' 

I believe I do not know them very well. I 
didn’t garden much last summer,” Mr. Mann ad- 
mitted. 

I’ll take those lovely big velvety pansies,” said 
Prim. 

‘‘ Goldie must have a bed of marigolds of every 
degree and shade. They are the only flowers I 
had in my boyhood. They seem so cheerful and 
hardy.” 

Goldie had made a wry face first. Now she said. 
Yes, I’ll take them,” and she slipped her hand 
in his. 

“ Mine will be a bed of poppies of every shade 
and color,” said Chan. “ They are so gorgeous.” 

Did any one ever have a heliotrope bed out-of- 
doors ? ” inquired Linn. “ I saw one at the 
florist’s.” 

Dan was consulted. Yes. One must buy the 
plants, however. Heliotropes come from seed so 
slowly.” 

Somewhere there’s a long row of foxgloves, 
and an iris bed. They were gorgeous.” 

Oh, when can we begin ? ” 

Mr. Mann laughed. '' March is an uncertain 
old fellow. I really think it is growing cooler 




now. May will be early enough, unless April is 
very pleasant.” 

“ Oh, what a long while to wait ! ” said Prim. 

What are you watching so intently. Father? ” 

“ That grayish lavender cloud coming up in the 
south. When I was a boy, farmers called it a 
snowcloud. If it kept rising up and remained 
steady, it was a sure sign of snow, but if it went 
to pieces that was the end of it.” 

How funny to tell by a cloud ! ” 

“ That looks rather solid,” said Dan. 

Then a gust of wind came up, and they all shiv- 
ered. Father said they had better go in. The 
warmth of the library was comforting, and there 
was the table spread out with the photographs. 

The twins had been setting their table in the 
playroom. They had some dainty finger slices 
of bread, some cake, and apples cut in small bits, 
and called by various names. 

If we only had some candy ! ” said Rhoda, 
whose appetite for this refreshment was insatiable. 
“ Don’t you s’pose mother brought home some last 
night ? I did get asleep, it was so late. And we’d 
all been real good. Cap said so.” 

“ Yes,” returned Laurel, big-eyed. She 
oughter brought us home somefin.” 

Prim said Laurel, having no ideas of her own. 




followed blindly. Yet she was occasionally 
roused to protest. 

“ Lai, suppose you go and ask her real nice. 
She’s upstairs mending the frock Prim teared. 
And father’s there and I guess he’ll say yes.” 

Lai started off joyfully. Mr. Mann was in 
Chan’s room, commending his boy for the im- 
provement in his card. Mrs. Mann had just fin- 
ished the frock. 

Please, Muver, we’m playin’ tea, and can’t we 
have some candy? Didn’t you bring home 
some for good little girls? Cap said we was 
good.” 

The tone was very coaxing. The mother bent 
and kissed her, then said quietly : 

Did Rhoda send you ? ” 

“ Yes’m,” glancing up with eager eyes. 

“ Go and tell Rhoda that mother hasn’t any 
candy for little girls, but that she is glad they have 
been good.” 

‘‘ Oh, Muver, just a tiny little bit.” 

‘‘ No, dear, not this afternoon.” 

Laurel turned away reluctantly. When she was 
going downstairs, Mr. Mann said: 

Bessy, how could you be so hardhearted ? ” 

I thought it was Rhoda’s plan. You see, the 
children are beginning to look for something when 




we come home, and I do dislike the habit. At 
least, Tip and Rhoda are the chief sinners. He 
asked me this morning.” 

But it gives them so much pleasure to be re- 
membered.” 

“ There are eight of them. You spoke of my 
going to the city next week. Think of their ex- 
pecting something every time.” 

But the older children would not, and the 
others would outgrow the habit.” 

“ It is best for them not to grow into it.” 

But what are we to do with all the candy ? ” 

‘‘ I asked you not to buy it. The children have 
luxuries enough. I am glad Cap is amenable to 
reason. We will have the candies for an extra 
dessert to-morrow.” 

'‘We are reversing relationships. Suppose I 
feel that I am deprived of pleasures, gratifica- 
tions ? ” in a humorously complaining fashion. 

" Then you must moderate your desires. Oh, 
there will be opportunities for spending money. 
Think, if we should bankrupt you! ” 

He laughed, then asked : “ What will you do to 
Rhoda ? ” 

" Nothing,” smiling with amusement. “ There 
is no benefit in noticing all the quips and quirks 
of children’s minds. I want them to know that 




gifts are to be occasional, not to be expected, nor 
exactly for good behavior or duties properly per- 
formed, for they have duties toward us as well as 
we toward them.” 

“ What a wise little woman you are ! ” in a tone 
of admiration. 

Eight children ought to have taught me some- 
thing,” with an amused gleam in her eyes. 

She might not have been so indulgently dis- 
posed if she had witnessed Laurel’s reception. 

“ She did not have any candy for you,” Laurel 
announced innocently. 

‘'Lai, you didn’t say / sent you?” in a sharp 
tone. 

“ Why — when Muver ast me,” hesitating and 
feeling that something was wrong. 

“You’re a — a — what they put in ’sylums; I 
can’t just think of the name. An’ you’ll go there 
some day, an’ you’ll be shut up ” 

“ Won’t go to ’sylum, needer ! An’ you told me 

to ast. You’re a — a ” Lai was not redundant 

in epithets. 

“ Just take that ! And now you sha’n’t come to 
my tea.” 

“ That ” was a slap on the shoulder. Laurel 
began to cry. 

“ Oh, you great cry-calf ! I didn’t hurt you a 



bit. You shouldn’t have been so close. Stop cry- 
ing an’ I’ll let you come.” 

Laurel sniffed a little, and then said, “ I’m go- 
ing to put Dolly in the closet, an’ I’ll ast Cap for 
a whole piece of cake. I won’t come to your old 
tea, so there! ” 

Christmas Dolly had come out of her hiding- 
place when the playroom was finished, but Rhoda 
had strict orders not to take it without Laurel’s 
permission. 

“ Oh, no. Laurel, stay here. I was just funnin’ 
bout the ’sylum. You wouldn’t be sent there. 
But you’re not reel smart, you know, and you can’t 
truly read nor do sums. Yes, le’s go on with the 
tea an’ play Mr. Evans came. He is so nice, you 
know.” 

Laurel hesitated with her hand on Dolly’s chair. 
She was quite easily mollified. Rhoda did not 
want to risk an appeal to her mother, so presently 
they sat down in a friendly fashion, and when 
they were summoned to dinner Rhoda was in a 
most affable mood. 

Afterward the elders had a delightful time go- 
ing over the photographs and hearing about fa- 
mous places and old houses that dated back to the 
War of the Revolution. 

‘‘ We ought to have a nice large portfolio and go 



on making a collection,” said Chan. “ They have 
a fine one at the Bradleys’.” 

‘‘ That’s a good idea,” said his father. “ I’ll 
look up one.” 

It will keep them out of the dust and busy lit- 
tle fingers,” added the mother. “ And now we 
must retire early. We were up very late last 
night.” 

I’ll go out and look at the cloud,” said Rilla. 

Linn followed. It was dark as midnight, and 
the wind seemed running a mad race. 

“ It will storm before morning,” predicted their 
father. 

Oh, Mother, aren’t you glad there is some one 
in the little old house, and that Tabby is housed 
and warm ? ” exclaimed Amaryllis as she kissed 
her mother good-night. 

A regular March snowstorm set in. The wind 
whirled the snow around in drifts. Toward 
morning the wind fell and it kept on snowing, 
though the air grew warmer. And now it clung 
to the tree branches and the posts and one side of 
the barn. It was really beautiful. Next door 
at the Greers’ there was a tremendous drift, and 
quite a large one over their snow man, a monu- 
ment for him. Prim said. 

The next morning was magnificent. Linn said 





he must go to school, he could not afford to lose a 
day. The children were well wrapped up and 
went out to help clear away the snow. Dan went 
around with a stick to dislodge it from the 
trees. 

‘‘ Why, I thought it would help keep them 
warm,” exclaimed Prim. 

But it is wet and heavy. And I don’t want 
the peach trees to break; they are tender. And 
the freezing and thawing injures the shrubbery.” 

By noon it was a fine spring day, with a balmi- 
ness in the air that was really fragrant. The hens 
caroled their lays and cackled their labor well- 
done. In spite of the white blankets of snow, one 
wanted to say the winter was over. 

And surely it was. The snowbanks dropped 
down and down. Birds came and sang, and 
Easter was only two weeks away. 

The first week in April was a holiday; then the 
new term began. Mr. and Mrs. Mann went over 
to the school one afternoon, and were most gra- 
ciously received by the principal, who spoke very 
highly of Linn, and thought he was quite sure to 
go into the graduating class in autumn. They 
were much pleased with the girls’ department, and 
decided to send all three. There was only a year 
and a half between Marigold and Primrose, and 



the latter was so well-grown they seemed more like 
twins than Rhoda and Laurel. 

They visited Miss King’s room, and Chan 
glanced up with shining eyes. How pretty his 
mother was, and his father looked so jolly and 
happy. 

He is one of my best boys,” Miss King said 
with a smile. I suppose being hurt and out of 
school put him back, but he will make it all up next 
year.” 

They were all so busy holiday week. Crocuses 
and tulips and hyacinths sprang up as if by magic, 
and each morning there were violets at their 
mother’s place. The lettuce and radishes in the 
hotbed grew apace. Linn went down to the city 
with his father for three days, and their mother 
went to do some shopping, for the girls had to 
have spring suits. Mr. Evans had set his heart 
on having Chan sing the beautiful solo in the an- 
them, and he was there with Miss Raynor prac- 
ticing it. His voice sounded clear and fine in 
the empty church. 

'' You won’t feel afraid, Chan,” the clergyman 
said. '' All you have to do is to sing just as natu- 
rally as you do now.” 

Oh, no. I shall think of the host bringing 
their glad tidings. Why, it will be just as if they 




were marching along. It looks so in the clouds 
sometimes, don’t you know? ” 

Mr. Evans gave him a tender embrace. 

And then came a lovely surprise to Chan. He 
sat at the piano late one afternoon, his favorite 
time for practice, when he heard his father let him- 
self in at the hall door, and he was speaking to 
some one. He turned round, and then rose, meet- 
ing a tall, fine-looking man who smiled upon him. 

This is my boy Chandler,” began Mr. Mann, 
