"Here, that'll do," he cried, seizing the heavier man by the collar.
"It isn't worth while to kill a man for a handful of rupees.  Let go,
you fool!"

He used his strength.  The man and his victim swung in a half-circle
and crashed to the floor.

With a snarl and an oath, the gambler sprung to his feet and started
toward Warrington.  He stopped short.

"Good God!" he murmured; and retreated until he touched the foot-board
of the bed.




VI

IN THE NEXT ROOM

"Craig?"  Warrington whispered the word, as if he feared the world
might hear the deadly menace in his voice.  For murder leaped up in his
heart as flame leaps up in pine-kindling.

The weak young man got to his knees, then to his feet.  He steadied
himself by clutching the back of a chair.  With one hand he felt of his
throat tenderly.

"He tried to kill me, the blackguard!" he croaked.

"Craig, it is you!  For ten years I've never thought of you without
murder in my heart.  Newell Craig, and here, right where I can put my
hands upon you!  Oh, this old world is small."  Warrington laughed.  It
was a high thin sound.

The young man looked from his enemy to his deliverer, and back again.
What new row was this?  Never before had he seen the blackguard with
that look in his dark, handsome, predatory face.  It typified fear.
And who was this big blond chap whose fingers were working so
convulsively?

"Craig," said the young man, "you get out of here, and if you ever come
bothering me, I'll shoot you.  Hear me?"

This direful threat did not seem to stir the sense of hearing in either
of the two men.  The one faced the other as a lion might have faced a
jackal, wondering if it would be worth while to waste a cuff on so
sorry a beast.  Suddenly the blond man caught the door and swung it
wide.

"Craig, a week ago I'd have throttled you without the least
compunction.  To-day I can't touch you.  But get out of here as fast as
you can.  You might have gone feet foremost.  Go!  Out of Rangoon, too.
I may change my mind."

The man called Craig walked out, squaring his shoulders with a touch of
bravado that did not impress even the plucked pigeon.  Warrington stood
listening until he heard the hall-door close sharply.

"Thanks," said the bewildered youth.

Warrington  whirled  upon  him  savagely.  "Thanks?  Don't thank me,
you weak-kneed fool!"

"Oh, I say, now!" the other protested.

"Be silent!  If you owe that scoundrel anything, refuse to pay it.  He
never won a penny in his life without cheating.  Keep out of his way;
keep out of the way of all men who prefer to deal only two hands."  And
with this advice Warrington stepped out into the hallway and shut the
door rudely.

The youth walked over to the mirror and straightened his collar and
tie.  "Rum go, that.  Narrow squeak.  Surly beggar, even if he did do
me a good turn.  I shan't have to pay that rotter, Craig, now.  That's
something."

"Pay the purser and get a box of cigars," Warrington directed James.
"Never mind about the wine.  I shan't want it now."

James went out upon the errands immediately.  Warrington dropped down
in the creaky rocking-chair, the only one in the boarding-house.  He
stared at the worn and faded carpet.  How dingy everything looked!
What a sordid rut he had been content to lie in!  Chance: to throw this
man across his path when he had almost forgotten him, forgotten that he
had sworn to break the man's neck over his knees!  In the very next
room!  And he had permitted him to go unharmed simply because his mind
was full of a girl he would never see again after to-morrow.  What was
the rascal doing over here?  What had caused him to forsake the easy
pluckings of Broadway in exchange for a dog's life on packet-boats, in
squalid boarding-houses like this one, and in dismal billiard-halls?
Wire-tapper, racing-tout, stool-pigeon, a cheater at cards, blackmailer
and trafficker in baser things; in the next room, and he had let him go
unharmed.  Vermin.  Pah!  He was glad.  The very touch of the man's
collar had left a sense of defilement upon his hands.  Ten years ago
and thirteen thousand miles away.  In the next room.  He laughed
unpleasantly.  Chivalric fool, silly Don Quixote, sentimental dreamer,
to have made a hash of his life in this manner!

He leaned toward the window-sill and opened the cage.  Rajah walked
out, muttering.


When it was possible, Elsa preferred to walk.  She was young and strong
and active; and she went along with a swinging stride that made obvious
a serene confidence in her ability to take care of herself.  She was,
in many respects, a remarkable young woman.  She had been pampered, she
had been given her head; and still she was unspoiled.  What the
unknowing called wilfulness was simply natural independence, which she
asserted whenever occasion demanded it.

Tongas cut into her nerves, the stuffy gharry made her head ache, and
the springless phaetons which abound in the East she avoided as the
plague.  Elephants and camels and rickshaws were her delight; but here
in Rangoon none of these was available.  There were no camels; the
government elephants had steady employment out at MacGregor's
timberyards and could not get leave of absence; while rickshaws were
out of fashion, as only natives and Chinamen rode in them.  So Elsa
walked.

She loved to prowl through the strange streets and alleys and stranger
shops; it was a joy to ramble about, minus the irritating importunities
of guide or attendant.  It was great fun, but it was not always wise.
There were some situations which only men could successfully handle.
Elsa would never confess that there had been instances when she had
been confronted by such situations.  She could, however, truthfully say
that these awkward moments had always been without endings, as, being
an excellent runner, she had, upon these occasions, blithely taken to
her heels.

In her cool white drill, her wide white pith-helmet, she presented a
charming picture.  The exercise had given her cheeks a bit of color,
and her eyes sparkled and flashed like raindrops.  This morning she had
taken Martha along merely to still her protests.

"It's all right so long as we keep to the main streets," said the
harried Martha; "but I do not like the idea of roaming about in the
native quarters.  This is not like Europe.  The hotel-manager said we
ought to have a man."

"He is looking out for his commission.  Heavens! what is the matter
with everybody?  One would think, the way people put themselves out to
warn you, that murder and robbery were daily occurrences in Asia.  I've
been here four months, and the only disagreeable moment I have known
was caused by a white man."

"Because we have been lucky so far, it's no sign that we shall continue
so."

"Raven!" laughed the girl.

Martha shut her lips grimly.  Her worry was not confined to this
particular phase of Elsa's imperious moods; it was general.  There was
that blond man with the parrot.  Martha was beginning to see him in her
dreams, which she considered as a presage of evil.  There was also the
astonishing lack of interest in the man who was waiting at home.  Elsa
rarely spoke of him.  Nobody could tell Martha that chance had thrown
the blond stranger into their society.  Somewhere it had been written.
(As, indeed, it had!) How to keep Elsa apart from him was now her vital
concern.  She would never feel at ease until they were out of Yokohama,
homeward-bound.

"I feel like a child this morning," said Elsa.  "I want to run and play
and shout."

"All the more reason why you should have a guardian. . . .  Look,
Elsa!"  Martha caught the girl by the arm.  "There's that man we left
at Mandalay."

"Where?"

"Coming toward us.  Shall we go into this shop?"

"No, thank you!  There is no reason why I should hide in a
butcher-shop, simply to avoid meeting the man.  We'll walk straight
past him.  If he speaks, we'll ignore him."

"I wish we were in a civilized country."

"This man is supposed to be civilized.  Don't let him catch your eye.
Go on; don't lag."

Craig stepped in front of them, smiling as he raised his helmet.  "This
is an unexpected pleasure."

Elsa, looking coldly beyond him, attempted to pass.

"Surely you remember me?"

"I remember an insolent cad," replied Elsa, her eyes beginning to burn
dangerously.  "Will you stand aside?"

He threw a swift glance about.  He saw with satisfaction that none but
natives was in evidence.

Elsa's glance roved, too, with a little chill of despair.  In stories
Warrington would have appeared about this time and soundly trounced
this impudent scoundrel.  She realized that she must settle this affair
alone.  She was not a soldier's daughter for nothing.

"Stand aside!"

"Hoity-toity!" he laughed.  He had been drinking liberally and was a
shade reckless.  "Why not be a good fellow?  Over here nobody minds.  I
know a neat little restaurant.  Bring the old lady along," with a
genial nod toward the quaking Martha.

Resolutely Elsa's hand went up to her helmet, and with a flourish drew
out one of the long steel pins.

"Oh, Elsa!" warned Martha.

"Be still!  This fellow needs a lesson.  Once more, Mr. Craig, will you
stand aside?"

Had he been sober he would have seen the real danger in the young
woman's eyes.

"Cruel!" he said.  "At least, one kiss," putting out his arms.

Elsa, merciless in her fury, plunged the pin into his wrist.  It stung
like a hornet; and with a gasp of pain, Craig leaped back out of range,
sobered.

"Why, you she-cat!"

"I warned you," she replied, her voice steady but low.  "The second
stab will be serious.  Stand aside."

He stepped into the gutter, biting his lips and straining his uninjured
hand over the hurting throb in his wrist.  The hat-pin as a weapon of
defense he had hitherto accepted as reporters' yarns.  He was now
thoroughly convinced of the truth.  He had had wide experience with
women.  His advantage had always been in the fact that the general run
of them will submit to insult rather than create a scene.  This
dark-eyed Judith was distinctly an exception to the rule.  Gad!  She
might have missed his wrist and jabbed him in the throat.  He swore,
and walked off down the street.

Elsa set a pace which Martha, with her wabbling knees, found difficult
to maintain.

"You might have killed him!" she cried breathlessly.

"You can't kill that kind of a snake with a hat-pin; you have to stamp
on its head.  But I rather believe it will be some time before Mr.
Craig will again make the mistake of insulting a woman because she
appears to be defenseless."  Elsa's chin was in the air.  The choking
sensation in her throat began to subside.  "The deadly hat-pin; can't
you see the story in the newspapers?  Well, I for one am not afraid to
use it.  You know and the purser knows what happened on the boat to
Mandalay.  He was plausible and affable and good-looking, and the
mistake was mine.  I seldom make them.  I kept quiet because the boat
was full-up, and as a rule I hate scenes.  Men like that know it.  If I
had complained, he would have denied his actions, inferred that I was
evil-minded.  He would have been shocked at my misinterpreting him.
Heavens, I know the breed!  Now, not a single word of this to any one.
Mr. Craig, I fancy, will be the last person to speak of it."

"You had better put the pin back into your hat," suggested Martha.

"Pah!  I had forgotten it."  Elsa flung the weapon far into the street.

Once they turned into Merchant Street, both felt the tension relax,
Martha would have liked to sit down, even on the curb.

"I despise men," she volunteered.

"I am beginning to believe that few of them are worth a thought.  Those
who aren't fools are knaves."

"Are you sure of your judgment in regard to this man Warrington?  How
can you tell that he is any different from that man Craig?"

"He is different, that is all.  This afternoon he will come to tea.  I
shall want you to be with us.  Remember, not a word of this disgraceful
affair."

"Ah, Elsa, I am afraid; I am more afraid of Warrington than of a man of
Craig's type."

"And why?"

"It sounds foolish, but I can't explain.  I am just afraid of him."

"Bother!  You talk like an old maid."

"And I am one, by preference."

"We are always quarreling, Martha; and it doesn't do either of us any
good.  When you oppose me, I find that that is the very thing I want to
do.  You haven't any diplomacy."

"I would gladly cultivate it if I thought it would prove effectual,"
was the retort.

"Try it," advised Elsa dryly.

Warrington's appearance that afternoon astonished Elsa.  She had
naturally expected some change, but scarcely such elegance.  He was,
without question, one of the handsomest men she had ever met.  He was
handsomer than Arthur because he was more manly in type.  Arthur
himself, an exquisite in the matter of clothes, could not have improved
upon this man's taste or selection.  What a mystery he was!  She
greeted him cordially, without restraint; but for all that, a little
shiver stirred the tendrils of hair at the nape of her neck.

"The most famous man in Rangoon to-day," she said, smiling.

"So you have read that tommy-rot in the newspaper?"

They sat on her private balcony, under an awning.  Rain was
threatening.  Martha laid aside her knitting and did her utmost to give
her smile of welcome an air of graciousness.

"I shouldn't call it tommy-rot," Elsa declared.  "It was not chance.
It was pluck and foresight.  Men who possess those two attributes get
about everything worth having."

"There are exceptions," studying the ferrule of his cane.

"Is there really anything you want now and can't have?"

Martha looked at her charge in dread and wonder.

"There is the moon," he answered.  "I have always wanted that.  But
there it hangs, just as far out of reach as ever."

"Two lumps?"

"None.  My sugar-tooth is gone."

Elsa had heard that hard drinkers disliked sweets.  Had this been the
Gordian knot he had cut?

"Perhaps, after all," she said, "you would prefer a peg, as you call it
over here."

"No, thanks.  I was never fond of whisky.  Sometimes, when I am dead
tired, and have to go on working, I take a little."

So that wasn't it.  Elsa's curiosity to-day was keenly alive.  She
wanted to ask a thousand questions; but the ease with which the man
wore his new clothes, used his voice and eyes and hands, convinced her
more than ever that the subtlest questions she might devise would not
stir him into any confession.  That he had once been a gentleman of her
own class, and more, something of an exquisite, there remained no doubt
in her mind.  What had he done?  What in the world had he done?

On his part he regretted the presence of Martha; for, so strongly had
this girl worked upon his imagination that he had called with the
deliberate intention of telling her everything.  But he could not open
the gates of his heart before a third person, one he intuitively knew
was antagonistic.

Conversation went afield: pictures and music and the polished capitals
of the world; the latest books and plays.  The information in regard to
these Elsa supplied him.  They discussed also the problems of the day
as frankly as if they had been in an Occidental drawing-room.  Martha's
tea was bitter.  She liked Arthur, who was always charming, who never
surprised or astonished anybody, or shocked them with unexpected phases
of character; and each time she looked at Warrington, Arthur seemed to
recede.  And when the time came for the guest to take his leave, Martha
regretted to find that the major part of her antagonism was gone.

"I wish to thank you, Miss Chetwood, for your kindness to a very lonely
man.  It isn't probable that I shall see you again.  I sail next
Thursday for Singapore."  He reached into a pocket.  "I wonder if you
would consider it an impertinence if I offered you this old trinket?"
He held out the mandarin's ring.

"What a beauty!" she exclaimed.  "Of course I'll accept it.  It is very
kind of you.  I am inordinately fond of such things.  Thank you.  How
easily it slips over my finger!"

"Chinamen have very slender fingers," he explained.  "Good-by.  Those
characters say 'Good luck and prosperity.'"

No expressed desire of wishing to meet her again; just an ordinary
every-day farewell; and she liked him all the better for his apparent
lack of sentiment.

"Good-by," she said.  She winced, for his hand was rough-palmed and
strong.

A little later she saw him pass down the street.  He never turned and
looked back.

"And why," asked Martha, "did you not tell the man that we sail on the
same ship?"

"You're a simpleton, Martha."  Elsa turned the ring round and round on
her finger.  "If I had told him, he would have canceled his sailing and
taken another boat."




VII

CONFIDENCES

That night Martha wrote a letter.  During the writing of it she jumped
at every sound: a footstep in the hall, the shutting of a door, a voice
calling in the street.  And yet, Martha was guilty of performing only
what she considered to be her bounden duty.  It is the prerogative of
fate to tangle or untangle the skein of human lives; but still, there
are those who elect themselves to break the news gently, to lessen the
shock of the blow which fate is about to deliver.


"My dear Mr. Arthur:

. . . I do not know what to make of it.  His likeness to you is the
most unheard of thing.  He is a little bigger and broader and he wears
his beard longer.  That's all the difference.  When he came on the boat
that night, it was like a hand clutching at my throat.  And you know
how romantic Elsa is, for all that she believes she is prosaic.  I am
certain that she sees you in this stranger who calls himself
Warrington.  If only you had had the foresight to follow us, a sailing
or two later!  And now they'll be together for four or five days, down
to Singapore.  I don't like it.  There's something uncanny in the
thing.  What if she did forbid you to follow?  There are some promises
women like men to break.  You should have followed.

Neither of us has the slightest idea what the man has done to exile
himself in this horrible land for ten years.  He still behaves like a
gentleman, and he must have been one in the past.  But he has never yet
spoken of his home, of his past, of his people.  We don't even know
that Warrington is his name.  And you know that's a sign that something
is wrong.  I wonder if you have any relatives by the name of
Warrington?  I begin to see that man's face in my dreams.

I am worried.  For Elsa is a puzzle.  She has always been one to me.  I
have been with her since her babyhood; and yet I know as little of what
goes on in her mind as a stranger would.  Her father, you know, was a
soldier, of fierce loves and hates; her mother was a handsome statue.
Elsa has her father's scorn for convention and his independence,
clothed in her mother's impenetrable mask.  Don't mistake me.  Elsa is
the most adorable creature to me, and I worship her; but I worry about
her.  I believe that it would be wise on your part to meet us in San
Francisco.  Give my love and respect to your dear beautiful mother.
And marry Elsa as fast as ever you can."


There followed some rambling comments on the weather, the rains and the
dust, the execrable food and the lack of drinking-water.  The man who
eventually received this letter never reached that part of it.


The day of sailing was brilliant and warm.  Elsa sat in a chair on the
deck of the tender, watching the passengers as they came aboard.  A
large tourist party bustled about, rummaged among the heaps of luggage,
and shouted questions at their unhappy conductor.  They wanted to know
where their staterooms were, grumbled about the size of the boat,
prophesied typhoons and wrecks, got in everybody's way, and ordered
other people's servants about.  Never before had Elsa realized the
difficulties that beset the path of the personal conductor.  Whatever
his salary was, he was entitled to it.  It was all he got.  No one
thought to offer him a little kindness.  He was a human guide-book
which his fares opened and shut how and when they pleased.

She saw Hooghly standing in the bow.  A steamer-trunk, a kit-bag, a
bedding-bag, and the inevitable parrot-cage, reposed at his feet.  He
was watching without interest or excitement the stream passing up and
down the gangplank.  If his master came, very well; if he did not, he
would get off with the luggage.  How she would have liked to question
him regarding his master!  Elsa began to offer excuses for her interest
in Warrington.  He was the counterpart of Arthur Ellison.  He had made
his fortune against odds.  He was a mystery.  Why shouldn't he interest
her?  Her mind was not ice, nor was her heart a stone.  She pitied him,
always wondering what was back of it all.  She would be a week in
Singapore; after that their paths would widen and become lost in the
future, and she would forget all about him, save in a shadowy way.  She
would marry Arthur whether she loved him or not.  She was certain that
he loved her.  He had a comfortable income, not equal to hers, but
enough.  He was, besides, her own sort; and there wasn't any mystery
about him at all.  He was as clear to her as glass.  For nearly ten
years she had known him, since his and his mother's arrival in the
small pretty Kentuckian town.  What was the use of hunting a fancy?
Yes, she would marry Arthur.  She was almost inclined to cable him to
meet her in San Francisco.

That there was real danger in her interest in Warrington did not occur
to her.  The fact that she was now willing to marry Arthur, without
analyzing the causes that had brought her to this decision, should have
warned her that she was dimly afraid of the stranger.  Her glance fell
upon the mandarin's ring.  She twirled it round undecidedly.  Should
she wear it or put it away?  The question remained suspended.  She saw
Craig coming aboard; and she hid her face behind her magazine.  Upon
second thought she let the magazine fall.  She was quite confident that
that chapter was closed.  Craig might be a scoundrel, but he was no
fool.

A sharp blast from the tender's whistle drew her attention to the
gangplank.  The last man to come aboard was Warrington.  He appeared in
no especial hurry.  He immediately sought James; and they stood
together chatting until the tender drew up alongside the steamer of the
British-India line.  The two men shook hands finally.  There seemed to
be some argument, in which Warrington bore down the servant.  The
latter added a friendly tap on the Eurasian's shoulder.  No one would
have suspected that the white man and his dark companion had been
"shipmates," in good times and in bad, for nearly a decade.  Elsa,
watching them from her secure nook, admired the lack of effusiveness.
The dignity of the parting told her of the depth of feeling.

An hour later they were heading for the delta.  Elsa amused herself by
casting bits of bread to the gulls.  Always they caught it on the wing,
no matter in what direction she threw it.  Sometimes one would wing up
to her very hand for charity, its coral feet stretched out to meet the
quick back-play of the wings, its cry shallow and plaintive and
world-lonely.

Suddenly she became aware of a presence at her side.

A voice said: "It was not quite fair of you."

"What wasn't?" without turning her head.  She brushed her hands free of
the crumbs.

"You should have let me know that you were going to sail on this boat."

"You would have run away, then."

"Why?" startled at her insight.

"Because you are a little afraid of me."  She faced him, without a
smile either on her lips or in her eyes.  "Aren't you?"

"Yes.  I am afraid of all things I do not quite understand."

"There is not the least need in the world, Mr. Warrington.  I am quite
harmless.  My claws have been clipped.  I am engaged to be married, and
am going home to decide the day."

"He's a lucky man."  He was astonished at his calm, for the blow went
deep.

"Lucky?  That is in the future.  What a lonely thing a gull is!"

"What a lonely thing a lonely man is!" he added.  Poor fool!  To have
dreamed so fair a dream for a single moment!  He tried to believe that
he was glad that she had told him about the other man.  The least this
information could do would be to give him better control of himself.
He had not been out in the open long enough entirely to master his
feelings.

"Men ought not to be lonely," she said.  "There's the excitement of
work, of mingling with crowds, of going when and where one pleases.  A
woman is hemmed in by a thousand petty must-nots.  She can't go out
after dark; she can't play whist or billiards, or sit at a table in the
open and drink and smoke and spin yarns.  Woman's lot is wondering and
waiting at home.  When I marry I suppose that I shall learn the truth
of that."

Perhaps it was because he had been away from them so long and had lost
track of the moods of the feminine mind; but surely it could not be
possible that there was real happiness in this young woman's heart.
Its evidence was lacking in her voice, in her face, in her gestures.
He thought it over with a sigh.  It was probably one of those marriages
of convenience, money on one side and social position on the other.  He
felt sorry for the girl, sorry for the man; for it was not possible
that a girl like this one would go through life without experiencing
that flash of insanity that is called the grand passion.

He loved her.  He could lean against the rail, his shoulder lightly
touching hers, and calmly say to himself that he loved her.  He could
calmly permit her to pass out of his life as a cloud passes down the
sea-rim.  He hadn't enough, but this evil must befall him.  Love!  He
spread out his hands unconsciously.

"What does that mean?" she asked, smiling now.  "An invocation?"

"It's a sign to ward off evil," he returned.

"From whom?"

"From me."

"Are you expecting evil?"

"I am always preparing myself to meet it.  There is one thing that will
always puzzle me.  Why should you have asked the purser to pick out
such a tramp as I was?  For I was a tramp."

"I thought I explained that."

"Not clearly."

"Well, then, I shall make myself clear.  The sight of you upon that
bank, the lights in your face, struck me as the strangest mystery that
could possibly confront me.  I thought you were a ghost."

"A ghost?"

"Yes.  So I asked the purser to introduce you to prove to my
satisfaction that you weren't a ghost.  Line for line, height for
height, color for color, you are the exact counterpart of the man I am
going home to marry."

She saw the shiver that ran over him; she saw his eyes widen; she saw
his hands knot in pressure over the rail.

"The man you are going to marry!" he whispered.

Abruptly, without explanation, he walked away, his shoulders settled,
his head bent.  It was her turn to be amazed.  What could this attitude
mean?

"Mr. Warrington!" she called.

But he disappeared down the companionway.




VIII

A WOMAN'S REASON

Elsa stared at the vacant doorway.  She recognized only a sense of
bewilderment.  This was not one of those childish flashes of rudeness
that had amused, annoyed and mystified her.  She had hurt him.  And
how?  Her first explanation was instantly rejected as absurd,
impossible.  They had known each other less than a fortnight.  They had
exchanged opinions upon a thousand topics, but sentiment had had no
visible part in these encounters.  They had been together three days on
the boat, and once he had taken tea with her in Rangoon.  She could
find nothing save that she had been kind to him when he most needed
kindness, and that she had not been stupidly curious, only
sympathetically so.  He interested her and held that interest because
he was a type unlike anything she had met outside the covers of a book.
He was so big and strong, and yet so boyish.  He had given her visions
of the character which had carried his manhood through all these years
of strife and bitterness and temptation.  And because of this she had
shown him that she had taken it for granted that whatever he had done
in the past had not put him beyond the pale of her friendship.  There
had been no degrading entanglements, and women forgive or condone all
other transgressions.

And what had she just said or done to put that look of dumb agony in
his face?  She swung impatiently from the rail.  She hated abstruse
problems, and not the least of these was that which would confront her
when she returned to America.  She began to promenade the deck, still
cluttered with luggage over which the Lascar stewards were moiling.
Many a glance followed the supple pleasing figure of the girl as she
passed round and round the deck.  Other promenaders stepped aside or
permitted her to pass between.  The resolute uplift of the chin, and
the staring dark eyes which saw but inner visions, impressed them with
the fact that it would be wiser to step aside voluntarily.  There were
some, however, who considered that they had as much right to the deck
as she.  Before them she would stop shortly, and as a current breaks
and passes each side of an immovable object, they, too, gave way.

The colonel fussed and fumed, and his three spinster charges drew their
pale lips into thinner paler lines.

"These Americans are impossible!"

"And it is scandalous the way the young women travel alone.  One can
never tell what they are."

"Humph!  Brag and assertiveness.  And there's that ruffian who came
down the river.  What's he doing on the same boat?  What?"

Elsa became aware of their presence at the fifth turn.  She nodded
absently.  Being immersed in the sea of conjecture regarding
Warrington's behavior, the colonel's glare did not rouse in her the
sense of impending disaster.

The first gong for dinner boomed.  Elsa missed the clarion notes of the
bugle, so familiar to her ears on the Atlantic.  The echoing wail of
the gong spoke in the voice of the East, of its dalliance, its content
to drift in a sargassa sea of entangling habits and desires, of its
fatalism and inertia.  It did not hearten one or excite hunger.  Elsa
would rather have lain down in her Canton lounging-chair.  The gong
seemed out of place on the sea.  Vaguely it reminded her of the railway
stations at home, where they beat the gong to entice passengers into
the evil-smelling restaurants, there to lose their patience and often
their trains.

The dining-saloon held two long tables, only one of which was in
commission, the starboard.  The saloon was unattractive, for staterooms
marshaled along each side of it; and one caught glimpses of tumbled
luggage and tousled berths.  A punka stretched from one end of the
table to the other, and swung indolently to and fro, whining
mysteriously as if in protest, sometimes subsiding altogether (as the
wearied coolie above the lights fell asleep) and then flapping
hysterically (after a shout of warning from the captain) and setting
the women's hair awry.

Elsa and Martha were seated somewhere between the head and the foot of
the table.  The personally-conducted surrounded them, and gabbled
incessantly during the meal of what they had seen, of what they were
going to see, and of what they had missed by not going with the other
agency's party.  Elsa's sympathy went out to the tired and faded
conductor.

There was but one vacant chair; and as she saw Warrington nowhere, Elsa
assumed that this must be his reservation.  She was rather glad that he
would be beyond conversational radius.  She liked to talk to the
strange and lonely man, but she preferred to be alone with him when she
did so.  Neither of them had yet descended to the level of trifles; and
Elsa had no wish to share with persons uninteresting and
uncompanionable her serious views of life.  Sometimes she wondered if,
after all, she was not as old as the hills instead of twenty-five.

She began as of old to study carelessly the faces of the diners and to
speculate as to their characters and occupations.  Her negligent
observation roved from the pompous captain down to the dark picturesque
face of the man Craig.  Upon him her glance, a mixture of contempt and
curiosity, rested.  If he behaved himself and made no attempt to speak
to her, she was willing to declare a truce.  In Rangoon the man had
been drunk, but on the Irrawaddy boat he had been sober enough.  Craig
kept his eyes directed upon his food and did not offer her even a
furtive glance.

He was not in a happy state of mind.  He had taken passage the last
moment to avoid meeting again the one man he feared.  For ten years
this man had been reckoned among the lost.  Many believed him dead, and
Craig had wished it rather than believed.  And then, to meet him face
to face in that sordid boarding-house had shaken the cool nerve of the
gambler.  He was worried and bewildered.  He had practically sent this
man to ruin.  What would be the reprisal?  He reached for a mangosteen
and ate the white pulpy contents, but without the customary relish.
The phrase kept running through his head: What would be the reprisal?
For men of his ilk never struck without expecting to be struck back.
Something must be done.  Should he seek him and boldly ask what he
intended to do?  Certainly he could not do much on board here, except
to denounce him to the officers as a professional gambler.  And Paul
would scarcely do that since he, Craig, had a better shot in his gun.
He could tell who Paul was and what he had done.  Bodily harm was what
he really feared.

He had seen Elsa, but he had worked out that problem easily.  She was
sure to say nothing so long as he let her be; and with the episode of
the hat-pin still fresh in his memory, he assuredly would keep his
distance.  He had made a mistake, and was not likely to repeat it.

But Paul!  He finished his dessert and went off to the stuffy little
smoke-room, and struggled with a Burma cheroot.  Paul was a smoker, and
sooner or later he would drop in.  There would be no beating about the
bush on his part.  If it was to be war, all right; a truce, well and
good.  But he wanted to know, and he was not going to let fear stand in
the way.  He waited in vain for his man that night.

And so did Elsa.  She felt indignant at one moment and hurt at another.
The man's attitude was inexplicable; there was neither rhyme nor reason
in it.  The very fact that she could not understand made her wonder
march beside her even in her dreams that night.  She began to feel
genuinely sorry that he had appeared above her horizon.  He had
disturbed her poise; he had thrown her accepted views of life into an
entirely different angle, kaleidoscopically.  And always that
supernatural likeness to the other man.  Elsa began to experience a
sensation like that which attends the imagination of one in the clutch
of a nightmare: she hung in mid-air: she could neither retreat nor go
forward.  Just before she retired she leaned over the rail, watching
the reflection of the stars twist and shiver on the smooth water.
Suddenly she listened.  She might have imagined it, for at night the
ears deceive.  "Jah, jah!"  Somewhere from below came the muffled
plaint of Rajah.

Next day, at luncheon, the chair was still vacant.  Elsa became
alarmed.  Perhaps he was ill.  She made inquiries, regardless of the
possible misinterpretation her concern might be given by others.  Mr.
Warrington had had his meals served in his cabin, but the steward
declared that the gentleman was not ill, only tired and irritable, and
that he amused himself with a trained parrakeet.

All day long the sea lay waveless and unrippled, a sea of brass and
lapis-lazuli; brass where the sun struck and lapis-lazuli in the shadow
of the lazy swells.  Schools of flying-fish broke fan-wise in flashes
of silver, and porpoise sported alongside.  And warmer and warmer grew
the air.

Starboard was rigged up for cricket, and the ship's officers and some
of the passengers played the game until the first gong.  Elsa grumbled
to Martha.  There was little enough space to walk in as it was without
the men taking over the whole side of the ship and cheating her out of
a glorious sunset.  Martha grew troubled and perplexed.  If there was
one phase of character unknown to her in Elsa it was irritability; and
here she was, finding fault like any ordinary tourist.

"Where is Mr. Warrington?"

"I don't know.  I haven't seen him since yesterday."  Elsa dropped her
book petulantly.  "I am weary of these namby-pamby stories."

"Why, I thought you admired that author."

"Not to-day at any rate.  Silly twaddle."

Martha's eyes had a hopeless look in them as she asked: "Elsa, what is
the matter?"

"I don't know, Martha.  I believe I should like to lose my temper
utterly.  It might be a great relief."

"It's the climate."

