the reporters.  Norton looked over the rail at the big warehouse.
"Was it an ordinary balloon?"
"There you've got me.  My Marconi man says the balloon part was like
any other balloon; but the passenger car was a new business to him.  It
could be driven against the wind."
"Driven against the wind.  Did you tell this to the other chaps?"
"Don't think I did.  Just remembered it.  Probably some new invention;
and now it's at the bottom of the sea.  Two men, as I understand, went
off in this contraption.  One is gone for good."
"For good," echoed the reporter gravely.  "Gone for good, indeed, poor
devil!"
Norton took out a roll of bills.  "There's two hundred in this roll."
"Well?" said the captain, vastly astonished.
"It's yours if you will do me a small favor."
"If it doesn't get me mixed up with the police.  I'm only captain of a
tramp; and some of the harbor police have taken a dislike to me.  What
do you want me to do?"
"The police will not bother you.  This man Hargreave had some enemies;
they want either his life or his money; maybe both.  It's a peculiar
case, with Russia in the background.  He might have laid the whole
business before the police, but he chose to fight it out himself.  And
to tell the truth, I don't believe the police would have done any good."
"Heave her over; what do you want me to do for that handsome roll of
money?"
"If any man or woman who is not a reporter comes to pump you tell them
the man went ashore with a packet under his arm."
"Tie a knot in that."
"Say the man was gray-haired, clean-shaven, straight, with a scar high
up on his forehead, generally covered up by his hair."
"That's battened down, my lad.  Go on."
"Say that you saw him enter yonder warehouse, and later depart without
his packet."
"Easy as dropping my mudhook."
"That's all."  Norton gave the captain the money.  "Good-by and many
thanks."
"Don't mention it."
Norton left the slip and proceeded to the office of the warehouse.  He
approached the manager's desk.
"Hello, Grannis, old top!"
The man looked up from his work surlily.  Then his face brightened.
"Norton?  What's brought you here?  Oh, yes; that balloon business.
Sit down."
"What kind of a man is the captain of that old hooker in the slip?"
"Shifty in gun running, but otherwise as square as a die.  Looks funny
to see an old tub like that fixed up with wireless; but that has saved
his neck a dozen times when he was running it into a noose.  Not going
to interview me, are you?"
"No.  I'm going to ask you to do me a little favor."
"They always say that.  But spin her out.  If it doesn't cost me my
job, it's yours."
"Well, there will be a person making inquiries about the mysterious
aeronaut.  All I want you to say is, that he left a packet with you,
that you've put it in that safe till he calls to claim it."
Grannis nibbled the end of his pen.  "Suppose some one should come and
demand that I open the safe and deliver?"
"All you've got to do is to tell them to show the receipt signed by
you."
The warehouse manager laughed.  "Got a lot of sense in that ivory dome
of yours.  All right.  But if anything happens you've got to come
around and back me up.  What's it about?"
"That I dare not tell you.  This much, I'm laying a trap and I want
some one I don't know to fall into it."
"On your way, James.  But if you don't send me some prize fight tickets
next week for this, I'll never do you another favor."
In reply Norton took from his pocket two bits of pasteboard and laid
them on the desk.  "I knew you'd be wanting something like this."
"Ringside!" cried Grannis.  "You reporters are lucky devils!"
"I'd go myself if there was any earthly chance of a real scrap.  You
make me laugh, Gran.  You're always going, always hoping the next one
will be a real one.  But it's all bunk.  The pugs are the biggest
fakers on top of the sod.  They've got us newspaper men done to a
frazzle."
"I guess you're right.  Well, count on me regarding that mysterious
bundle in the safe."
"At three o'clock this afternoon I want you to call me up.  If no one
has called, why the game is up.  But if some one does come around and
make inquiries, don't fail to let me know."
"I'll be here till five.  I'd better call you up then."
Then Norton returned home and idled about till afternoon.  He went over
to Riverdale.  Five times he walked up and down in front of the
Hargreave place, finally plucked up his courage and walked to the door.
After all, he was a lucky mortal.  He had a good excuse to visit this
house every day in the week.  And there was something tantalizing in
the risk he took.  Besides, he wanted to prove to himself whether it
was a passing fancy or something deeper.  That's the way with humans;
we never see a sign "Fresh Paint" that we don't have to prove it.
He chatted with Florence for a while and found that, for all she might
be guileless to the world, she was a good linguist, a fine musician,
and talked with remarkable keenness about books and arts.  But unless
he roused her, the sadness of her position always lay written in her
face.  It was not difficult for him to conjure up her dreams in coming
to the city and the blow which, like a bolt of lightning from a clear
sky, had shattered them ruthlessly.
"You must come every day and tell me how you have progressed," she said.
"I'll obey that order gladly, whenever I can possibly do it.  My visits
will always be short."
"That is not necessary."
"No," said Norton in his heart, "but it is wise."
Always he found Jones waiting for him at the door, always in the shadow.
"Well?" the butler whispered.
"I have laid a neat trap.  Whether this balloon was the one that left
the top of this house I don't know.  But if there were two men in it,
one of them lies at the bottom of the sea."
"And the man who was found?"  The butler's voice was tense.
"It was not Hargreave.  I met Orts but once, and as he wore a beard
then, the captain's description did not tally with your recollection."
"Thank God!  But what is this trap?"
"I propose to find out by it who is back of all this, who Hargreave's
real enemies are."
Norton returned to his rooms, there to await the call from Grannis.  He
was sorry, but if Jones would not take him into his fullest confidence,
he must hold himself to blame for any blunder he (Norton) made.  Of
course, he could readily understand Jones' angle of vision.  He knew
nothing of the general run of reporters; he had heard of them by rumor
and distrusted them.  He was not aware of the fact that the average
reporter carries more secrets in his head than a prime minister.  It
was, then, up to him to set about to allay this distrust and gain the
man's complete confidence.
Meanwhile that same morning a pretty young woman boarded the Orient
and asked to be led to the captain.  Her eyes were red; she had
evidently been weeping.  When the captain, susceptible like all
sailors, saw her his promises to Norton took wings.
"This is Captain Hagan?" she asked, balling the handkerchief she held
in her hand.
"Yes, miss.  What can I do for you?"  He put his hands embarrassedly
into his pockets--and felt the crisp bills.  But for that magic touch
he would have forgotten his lines.  He squared his shoulders.
"I have every assurance that the man you picked up at sea is my father.
I am Florence Hargreave.  Tell me everything."
The captain's very blundering deceived her.  "And then he hustled down
the gangplank and headed for that warehouse.  He had a package which he
was as tender of as if it had been dynamite."
"Thank you!" impulsively.
"A man has to do his duty, miss.  A sailor's always glad to rescue a
man at sea," awkwardly.
When she finally went down the gangplank the sigh the captain heaved
was almost as loud as the exhaust from the donkey engines which were
working out the crates of lemons from the hold.
"Maybe she is his daughter; but two hundred is two hundred, and I'm a
poor sailor man."
Then Grannis came in for his troubles.  What was a chap to do when a
pretty girl appealed to him?
"I am sorry, miss, but I can't give you that package.  I gave the man a
receipt and till it is presented to me the package must remain in
yonder safe.  You understand enough about the business to realize that.
I did not solicit the job.  It was thrust upon me.  I'd give a hundred
dollars if the blame thing was out of my safe.  You say it is your
fortune.  That hasn't been proved.  It may be gunpowder, dynamite.  I'm
sorry, but you will have to find your father and bring the receipt."
The young woman left the warehouse, dabbing her eyes with the sodden
handkerchief.
"I wonder," mused Grannis, as he watched her from the window, "I wonder
what the deuce that chap Norton is up to.  The girl might have been the
man's daughter....  Good lord, what an ass I am!  There wasn't any
man!" And so he reached over for the telephone.
Immediately upon receipt of the message the reporter set his machinery
in motion.  Some time before dawn he would know who the
arch-conspirator was.  He questioned Grannis thoroughly, and Grannis'
description tallied amazingly with that of Florence Hargreave.  But a
call over the wire proved to him conclusively that Florence had not
been out of the house that morning.
On the morrow the newspapers had scare heads about an attempt to rob
the Duffy warehouse.  It appeared that the police had been tipped
beforehand and were on the grounds in time to gather in several
notorious gunmen, who, under pressure of the third degree, vowed that
they had been hired and paid by a man in a mask and had not the
slightest idea what he wanted them to raid.  Nothing further could be
got out of the gunmen.  That they were lying the police had no doubt,
but they were up against a stout wall and all they could do was to hold
the men for the grand jury.
Norton was in a fine temper.  After all his careful planning he had
gained nothing--absolutely nothing.  But wait; he had gained
something--the bitter enmity of a cunning and desperate man, who had
been forced to remain hidden under the pier till almost dawn.
CHAPTER IV
Braine crawled from his uncomfortable hiding place.  His clothes were
soiled and damp, his hat was gone.  By a hair's breadth he had escaped
the clever trap laid for him.  Hargreave was alive, he had escaped;
Braine was as certain of this fact as he was of his own breathing.  He
now knew how to account for the flickering light in the upper story of
the warehouse.  His ancient enemy had been watching him all the time.
More than this, Hargreave and the meddling reporter were in collusion.
In the flare of lights at the end of the gun-play he had caught the
profile of the reporter.  Here was a dangerous man, who must be watched
with the utmost care.
He, Braine, had been lured to commit an overt act, and by the rarest
good luck had escaped with nothing more serious than a cold chill and a
galling disappointment.
He crawled along the top of the pier, listening, sending his
dark-accustomed glance hither and thither.  The sky in the east was
growing paler and paler.  In and out among the bales of wool, bags of
coffee and lemon crates he slowly and cautiously wormed his way.  A
watchman patrolled the office side of the warehouse, and Braine found
it possible to creep around the other way, thence into the street.
After that he straightened up, sought a second-hand shop and purchased
a soft hat, which he pulled down over his eyes.
He had half a dozen rooms which he always kept in readiness for such
adventures as this.  He rented them furnished in small hotels which
never asked questions of their patrons.  To one of these he went as
fast as his weary legs could carry him.  He always carried the key.
Once in his room he donned fresh wearing apparel, linen, shoes, and
shaved.  Then he proceeded down-stairs, the second-hand hat shading his
eyes and the upper part of his face.
At half past twelve Norton entered the Knickerbocker cafe-restaurant,
and the first person he noticed was Braine, reading the morning's
paper, propped up against the water carafe.  Evidently he had just
ordered, for there was nothing on his plate.  Norton walked over and
laid his hand upon Braine's shoulder.  The man looked up with mild
curiosity.
"Why, Norton, sit down, sit down!  Have you had lunch?  No?  Join me."
"Thanks.  Came in for my breakfast," said Norton, drawing out the
chair.  Braine was sitting with his back to the wall on the lounge-seat.
"I wonder if you newspaper men ever eat a real, true enough breakfast.
I should think the hours you lead would kill you off.  Anything new on
the Hargreave story?"
"I'm not handling that," the reporter lied cheerfully.  "Didn't want
to.  I knew him rather intimately.  I've a horror of dead people, and
don't want to be called upon to identify the body when they find it."
"Then you think they will find it?"
"I don't know.  It's a strange mixup.  I'm not on the story, mind you;
but I was in the locality of Duffy's warehouse late last night and fell
into a gunman rumpus."
"Yes, I read about that.  What were they after?"
"You've got me there.  No one seems to know.  Some cock and bull story
about there being something valuable.  There was."
"What was it?  The report in this paper does not say."
"Ten thousand bags of coffee."
Braine lay back in his chair and laughed.
"If you want my opinion," said Norton, "I believe the gunmen were out
to shoot up another gang, and the police got wind of it."
"Don't you think it about time the police called a halt in this gunman
matter?"
"Oh, so long as they pot each other the police look the other way.  It
saves a long trial and passage up the river.  Besides, when they are
nabbed some big politician manages to open the door for them.  Great is
the American voter."
"Take Mr. Norton's order, Luigi," said Braine.
"A German pancake, buttered toast and coffee," ordered the reporter.
"Man, eat something!"
"It's enough for me."
"And you'll go all the rest of the day on tobacco.  I know something of
you chaps.  I don't see how you manage to do it."
"Food is the least of our troubles.  By the way, may I ask you a few
questions?  Nothing for print, unless you've got a new book coming."
"Fire away."
"What do you know about the Countess Perigoff?"
"Let me see.  H'm.  Met her first about a year ago at a reception given
to Nasimova.  A very attractive woman.  I see quite a lot of her.  Why?"
"Well, she claims to be a sort of aunt to Hargreave's daughter."
"She said something to me about that the other night.  You never know
where you're at in this world, do you?"
The German pancake, the toast, the coffee disappeared, and the reporter
passed his cigars.
"The president visits town to-day and I'm off to watch the show.  I
suppose I'll have to interview him about the tariff and all that rot.
When you start on a new book let me know and I'll be your press agent."
"That's a bargain."
"Thanks for the breakfast."
Braine picked up his newspaper, smoked and read.  He smoked, yes, but
he only pretended to read.  The young fool was clever, but no man is
infallible.  He had not the least suspicion; he saw only the newspaper
story.  Still, in some manner he might stumble upon the truth, and it
would be just as well to tie the reporter's hands effectually.
The rancor of early morning had been subdued; anger and quick temper
never paid in the long run, and no one appreciated this fact better
than Braine.  To put Norton out of the way temporarily was only a wise
precaution; it was not a matter of spite or reprisal.
He paid the reckoning, left the restaurant, and dropped into one of his
clubs for a game of billiards.  He drew quite a gallery about the
table.  He won easily, racked his cue and sought the apartments of the
countess.
What a piece of luck it was that Olga had really married that old
dotard, Perigoff!  He had left her a titled widow six months after her
marriage.  But she had had hardly a kopeck to call her own.
"Olga, Hargreave is alive.  He was there last night.  But somehow he
anticipated the raid and had the police in waiting.  The question is,
has he fooled us?  Did he take that million or did he hide it?  There
is one thing left--to get that girl.  No matter where Hargreave is
hidden, the knowledge that she is in my hands will bring him out into
the open."
"No more blind alleys."
"What's on your mind?"
"She has never seen her father.  She confessed to me that she has not
even seen a photograph of him."
There was a long pause.
"Do you understand me?" she asked.
"By the Lord Harry, I do!  You've a head on you worth two of mine.  The
very simplicity of the idea will win out for us.  Some one to pose as
her father; a message handed to her in secret; dire misfortune if she
whispers a word to any one; that her father's life hangs upon the
secrecy; she must confide in no one, least of all Jones, the butler.
It all depends upon how the letter gets to her.  Bred in the country,
she probably sleeps with her window open.  A pebble attached to a note,
tossed into the window.  I'll trust this to no one; I'll do it myself.
With the girl in our control the rest will be easy.  If she really does
not know where the money is Hargreave will tell us.  Great head, little
woman, great head.  She does not know her father's handwriting?"
"She has never seen a scrap of it.  Miss Farlow never showed her the
registered letters.  The original note left on the doorstep with
Florence has been lost.  Trust me to make all these inquiries."
"To-morrow night, then, immediately after dinner, a taxicab will await
her just around the corner.  Grange is the best man I can think of.
He's an artist when it comes to playing the old-man parts."
"Not too old, remember.  Hargreave isn't over forty-five."
"Another good point.  I'm going to stretch out here on the divan and
snooze for a while.  Had a devil of a time last night."
"When shall I wake you?"
"At six.  We'll have an early dinner sent in.  I want to keep out of
everybody's way.  By-by!"
In less than three minutes he was sound asleep.  The woman gazed down
at him in wonder and envy.  If only she could drop to sleep like that.
Very softly she pressed her lips to his hair.
At eleven o'clock the following night the hall light in the Hargreave
house was turned off and the whole interior became dark.  A shadow
crept through the lilac bushes without any more sound than a cat would
have made.  Florence's window was open as the arch-conspirator had
expected it would be.  With a small string and stone as a sling he sent
the letter whirling skilfully through the air.  It sailed into the
girl's room.  The man below heard no sound of the stone hitting
anything and concluded that it had struck the bed.
He waited patiently.  Presently a wavering light could be distinguished
over the sill of the window.  The girl was awake and had lit the
candle.  This knowledge was sufficient for his need.  The tragic letter
would do the rest, that is, if the girl came from the same pattern as
her father and mother--strong-willed and adventurous.
He tiptoed back to the lilacs, when a noise sent him close to the
ground.  Half a dozen feet away he saw a shadow creeping along toward
the front door.  Presently the shadow stood up as if listening.  He
stooped again and ran lightly to the steps, up these to the door, which
he hugged.
Who was this? wondered Braine.  Patiently he waited, arranging his
posture so that he could keep a lookout at the door.  By and by the
door opened cautiously.  A man holding a candle appeared.  Braine
vaguely recognized Olga's description of the butler.  The man on the
veranda suddenly blew out the light.
Braine could hear the low murmur of voices, but nothing more.  The
conversation lasted scarcely a minute.  The door closed and the man,
ran down the steps, across the lawn, with Braine close at his heels.
"Just a moment, Mr. Hargreave," he called ironically; "just a moment!"
The man he addressed as Hargreave turned with lightning rapidity and
struck.  The blow caught Braine above the ear, knocking him flat.  When
he regained his feet the rumble of a motor told him the rest of the
story.
By the dim light of her bedroom candle Florence read the note which had
found entrance so strangely and mysteriously into her room.  Her
father!  He lived, he needed her!  Alive, but in dread peril, and only
she could save him!  She longed to fly to him at once, then and there.
How could she wait till to-morrow night at eight?  Immediately she
began to plan how to circumvent the watchful Jones and the careful
Susan.  Her father!  She slept no more that night.
"My Darling Daughter: I must see you.  Come at eight o'clock to-morrow
night to 78 Grove Street, third floor.  Confide in no one, or you seal
my death warrant.
"Your unhappy
    "FATHER."
What child would refuse to obey a summons like this?
A light tap on the door startled her.
"Is anything the matter?" asked the mild voice of Jones.
"No.  I got up to get a drink of water."
She heard his footsteps die away down the corridor.  She thrust the
letter into the pocket of her dress, which lay neatly folded on the
chair at the foot of the bed, then climbed back into the bed itself.
She must not tell even Mr. Norton.
Was the child spinning a romance over the first young man she had ever
met?  In her heart of hearts the girl did not know.
Her father!
It was all so terribly and tragically simple, to match a woman's mind
against that of a child.  Both Norton and the sober Jones had
explicitly warned her never to go anywhere, receive telephone calls or
letters, without first consulting one or the other of them.  And now
she had planned to deceive them, with all the cunning of her sex.
The next morning at breakfast there was nothing unusual either in her
appearance or manners.  Under the shrewd scrutiny of Jones she was just
her every-day self, a fine bit of acting for one who had yet to see the
stage.  But it is born in woman to act, as it is born in man to fight,
and Florence was no exception to the rule.
She was going to save her father.
She read with Susan, played the piano, sewed a little, laughed, hummed
and did a thousand and one things young girls do when they have the
deception of their elders in view.
All day long Jones went about like an old hound with his nose to the
wind.  There was something in the air, but he could not tell what it
was.  Somehow or other, no matter which room Florence went into, there
was Jones within earshot.  And she dared not show the least impatience
or restiveness.  It was a large order for so young a girl, but she
filled it.
She rather expected that the reporter would appear some time during the
afternoon; and sure enough he did.  He could no more resist the desire
to see and talk to her than he could resist breathing.  There was no
use denying it; the world had suddenly turned at a new angle,
presenting a new face, a roseate vision.  It rather subdued his easy
banter.
"What news?" she asked.
"None," rather despondingly.  "I'm sorry.  I had hoped by this time to
get somewhere.  But it happens that I can't get any farther than this
house."
She did not ask him what he meant by that.
"Shall I play something for you?" she said.
"Please."
He drew a chair beside the piano and watched her fingers, white as the
ivory keys, flutter up and down the board.  She played Chopin for him,
Mendelssohn, Grieg and Chaminade; and she played them in a surprisingly
scholarly fashion.  He had expected the usual schoolgirl choice and
execution; Titania, the Moonlight Sonata (which not half a dozen
great pianists have ever played correctly), Monastery Bells, and the
like.  He had prepared to make a martyr of himself; instead, he was
distinctly and delightfully entertained.
"You don't," he said whimsically, when she finally stopped, "you don't,
by any chance, know The Maiden's Prayer?"
She laughed.  This piece was a standing joke at school.
"I have never played it.  It may, however, be in the cabinet.  Would
you like to hear it?" mischievously.
"Heaven forfend!" he murmured, raising his hands.
All the while the letter burned against her heart, and the smile on her
face and the gaiety on her tongue were forced.  "Confide in no one,"
she repeated mentally, "or you seal my death warrant."
"Why do you shake your head like that?" he asked.
"Did I shake my head?"  Her heart fluttered wildly.  "I was not
conscious of it."
"Are you going to keep your promise?"
"What promise?"
"Never to leave this house without Jones or myself being with you."
"I couldn't if I wanted to.  I'll wager Jones is out there in the hall
this minute.  I know; it is all for my sake.  But it bothers me."
Jones was indeed in the hall, and when he sensed the petulance in her
voice his shoulders sank despondently and he sighed deeply if silently.
At a quarter to eight Florence, being alone for a minute, set fire to a
veil and stuffed it down the register.
"Jones," she called excitedly, "I smell something burning!"
Jones dashed into the room, sniffed, and dashed out again, heading for
the cellar door.  His first thought was naturally that the devils
incarnate had set fire to the house.  When he returned, having, of
course, discovered no fire, he found Florence gone.  He rushed into the
hall.  Her hat was missing.  He made for the hall door with a speed
which seemed incredible to the bewildered Susan's eyes.  Out into the
street, up and down which he looked.  Far away he discovered a
dwindling taxicab.  The child was gone.
In the house Susan was answering the telephone, talking incoherently.
"Who is it?" Jones whispered, his lips white and dry.
"The countess...." began Susan.
He took the receiver from her roughly.
"Hello, who is it?"
"This is Olga Perigoff.  Is Florence there?"
"No, madam.  She has just stepped out for a moment.  Shall I tell her
to call you when she returns?"
"Yes, please.  I want her and Susan and Mr. Norton to come to tea
to-morrow.  Good-by."
Jones hung up the receiver, sank into a chair near by and buried his
face in his hands.
"What is it?" cried Susan, terrified by the haggardness of his face.
"She's gone!  My God, those wretches have got her!  They've got her!"
Florence was whirled away at top speed.  Her father!  She was actually
on the way to her father, whom she had always loved in dreams, yet
never seen.
Number 78 Grove Street was not an attractive place, but when she
arrived she was too highly keyed to take note of its sordidness.  She
was rather out of breath when she reached the door of the third flat.
She knocked timidly.  The door was instantly opened by a man who wore a
black mask.  She would have turned then and there and flown but for the
swift picture she had of a well-dressed man at a table.  He lay with
his head upon his arms.
"Father!" she whispered.
The man raised his careworn face, so very well done that only the
closest scrutiny would have betrayed the paste of the theater.  He
arose and staggered toward her with outstretched arms.  But the moment
they closed about her Florence experienced a peculiar shiver.
"My child!" murmured the broken man.  "They caught me when I was about
to come to you.  I have given up the fight."
A sob choked him.
What was it? wondered the child, her heart burning with the misery of
the thought that she was sad instead of glad.  Over his shoulder she
sent a glance about the room.  There was a sofa, a table, some chairs
and an enormous clock, the face of which was dented and the hands
hopelessly tangled.  Why, at such a moment, she should note such
details disturbed her.  Then she chanced to look into the cracked
mirror.  In it she saw several faces, all masked.  These men were
peering at her through the half-closed door behind her.
"You must return home and bring me the money," went on the wretch who
dared to perpetrate such a mockery.  "It is all that stands between me
and death."
Then she knew!  The insistent daily warnings came home to her.  She
understood now.  She had deliberately walked into the spider's net.
But instead of terror an extraordinary calm fell upon her.
"Very well, father, I will go and get it."  Gently she released herself
from those horrible arms.
"Wait, my child, till I see if they will let you go.  They may wish to
hold you as hostage."
When he was gone she tried the doors.  They were locked.  Then she
crossed over to the window and looked out.  A leap from there would
kill her.  She turned her gaze toward the lamp, wondering.
The false father returned, dejectedly.
"It is as I said.  They insist upon sending some one.  Write down the
directions I gave to you.  I am very weak!"
"Write down the directions yourself, father; you know them better than
I."  Since she saw no escape, she was determined to keep up the tragic
farce no longer.
"I am not your father."
"So I see," she replied, still with the amazing calm.
Braine, in the other room, shook his head savagely.  Father and
daughter; the same steel in the nerves.  Could they bend her?  Would
they break her?  He did not wish to injure her bodily, but a million
was always a million, and there was revenge which was worth more to him
than the money itself.  He listened, motioning to the others to be
silent.
"Write the directions," commanded the scoundrel, who discarded the
broken-man style.
"I know of no hidden money."
"Then your father dies this night."  Grange put a whistle to his lips.
"Sign, write!"
"I refuse!"
"Once more.  The moment I blow this whistle the men in the other room
will understand that your father is to die.  Be wise.  Money is
nothing--life is everything."
"I refuse!"  Even as she had known this vile creature to be an impostor
so she knew that he lied, that her father was still free.
Grange blew the whistle.  Instantly the room became filled with masked
men.  But Florence was ready.  She seized the lamp and hurled it to the
floor, quite indifferent whether it exploded or went out.  Happily for
her, it was extinguished.  At the same moment she cast the lamp she
caught hold of a chair, remembering the direction of the window.  She
was superhumanly strong in this moment.  The chair went true.  A crash
followed.
"She has thrown herself out of the window!" yelled a voice.
Some one groped for the lamp, lit it and turned in time to see Florence
pass out of the room into that from which they had come.  The door
slammed.  The surprised men heard the key click.
She was free.  But she was no longer a child.
CHAPTER V
"Gone!"
Jones kept saying to himself that he must strive to be calm, to think,
think.  Despite all his warnings, the warnings of Norton, she had
tricked them and run away.  It was maddening.  He wanted to rave, tear
his hair, break things.  He tramped the hall.  It would be wasting time
to send for the police.  They would only putter about fruitlessly.  The
Black Hundred knew how to arrange these abductions.
How had they succeeded in doing it?  No one had entered the house that
day without his being present.  There had been no telephone call he had
not heard the gist of, nor any letters he had not first glanced over.
How had they done it?  Suddenly into his mind flashed the remembrance
of the candle-light under Florence's door the night before.  In a dozen
bounds he was in her room, searching drawers, paper boxes, baskets.  He
found nothing.  He returned in despair to Susan, who, during all this
turmoil, had sat as if frozen in her chair.
"Speak!" he cried.  "For God's sake, say something, think something!
Those devils are likely to torture her, hurt, her!"  He leaned against
the wall, his head on his arm.
When he turned again he was calm.  He walked with bent head toward the
door, opened it and stood upon the threshold for a space.  Across the
street a shadow stirred, but Jones did not see it.  His gaze was
attracted by something which shone dimly white on the walk just beyond
the steps.  He ran to it.  A crumpled letter, unaddressed.  He carried
it back to the house, smoothed it out and read, its contents.  Florence
in her haste had dropped the letter.
He clutched at his hat, put it on and ran to Susan.
"Here!" he cried, holding out an automatic.  "If any one comes in that
you don't know, shoot!  Don't ask questions, shoot!"
"I'm afraid!"  She breathed with difficulty.
"Afraid?" he roared at her.  He put the weapon in her hand.  It slipped
and thudded to the floor.  He stooped for it and slammed it into her
lap.  "You love your life and honor.  You'll know how to shoot when the
time comes.  Now, attend to me.  If I'm not back here by ten o'clock,
turn this note over to the police.  If you can't do that, then God help
us all!"  And with that he ran from the house.
Susan eyed the revolver with growing terror.  For what had she left the
peace and quiet of Miss Farlow's; assassination, robbery, thieves and
kidnapers?  She wanted to shriek, but her throat was as dry as paper.
Gingerly she touched the pistol.  The cold steel sent a thrill of fear
over her.  He hadn't told her how to shoot it!
Two blocks down the street, up an alley, was the garage wherein
Hargreave had been wont to keep his car.  Toward this Jones ran with
the speed of a track athlete.  There might be half a dozen taxicabs
about, but he would not run the risk of engaging any of them.  The
Black Hundred was capable of anticipating his every movement.
The shadow across the street stood undecided.  At length he concluded
to give Jones ten minutes in which to return.  If he did not return in
that time, the watcher would go up to the drug store and telephone for
instructions.
But Jones did not come back.
"Where's Howard?" he demanded.
"Hello, Jones; what's up?"
"Howard, get that car out at once."
"Out she comes.  Wait till I give her radiator a bucket of water.
Gee!" whispered Howard, whom Hargreave often used as his chauffeur,
"get on to his nibs!  First time I ever saw him awake.  I wonder what's
doing?  You never know what's back of those mummy-faced head
waiters....  All right, Jones!"
The chauffeur jumped into the car and Jones took the seat beside him.
"Where to?"
"Number 78..." and the rest of it trailed away, smothered in the
violent thunder of the big six's engines.
During the car's flight several policemen hailed it without success.
Down this street, up that, round this corner, fifty miles an hour; and
all the while Jones shouted: "Faster, faster!"
Within twelve minutes from the time it left the garage, the car stopped
opposite 78 Grove Street, and Jones got out.
"Wait here, Howard.  If several men come rushing out, or I don't appear
within ten minutes, fire your gun a couple of times for the police.  I
don't want them if we can manage without.  They'd only bungle."
"All right, Mr. Jones," said the chauffeur.  He had, in the past
quarter of an hour, acquired a deep and lasting respect for the butler
chap.  He was a regular fellow, for all his brass buttons.
As Jones reached the curb, Florence came forth as if on invisible
wings.  Jones caught her by the arm.  She flung him aside with a
strength he had not dreamed existed in her slim body.
"Florence, I am Jones!"
She stopped, recognized him, and without a word ran across the street
to the automobile and climbed into the tonneau.  Jones followed
immediately.
"Home!"
The car shot up the dimly lighted street, shone palely for a second
under the corner lamp, and vanished.
"Ah, child, child!" groaned the man at her side, all the tenseness gone
from his body.  He was Jones again.
Still she did not speak, but stared ahead with unseeing eyes.
No further reproach fell from the butler's lips.  It was enough that
God had guided him to her at the appointed moment.  He felt assured
that never again would she be drawn into any trap.  Poor child!  What
had they said to her, done to her?  How, in God's name, had she escaped
from them who never let anybody escape?  Presently she would become
normal, and then she would tell him.
"I found the lying note.  You dropped it."
"Horrible, horrible!" she said almost inaudibly.
"What did they do to you?"
"He said he was my father....  He put his arms around me....  And I
knew!"
"Knew what?"
"That he lied.  I can't explain."
"Don't try!"
Suddenly she laid her head against the butler's shoulder and cried.  It
was terrible to hear youth weep in this fashion.  Jones put his arm
about her and tried to console her.
"Horrible!" she murmured between the violent hiccoughs.  "I was wrong,
wrong!  Forgive me!"
Unconsciously the arm sustaining her drew her closer.
"Never mind," he consoled.  "Tell no one what has happened.  Go about
as usual.  Don't let even Susan know.  Whatever your poor father did
was for your sake.  He wanted you to be happy, without a care in the
world."
"I promise."  And gradually the sobs ceased.  "But I feel so old,
Jones, so very old.  I threw over the lamp.  I threw a chair through
the window.  They thought that it was I who had jumped out.  That gave
me the necessary time.  I don't understand how I did it.  I wasn't
frightened at all till I gained the street."
They found Susan still seated in the chair, the automatic in her lap.
She had not moved in all this time!
Braine paced the apartment of the Countess Perigoff.  From the living
room to the boudoir and back, fully twenty times.  From the divan Olga
watched him nervously.  He was like a tiger, fresh in captivity.  All
at once he paused in front of her.
"Do you realize what that mere chit did?"
"I do."
"Planned to the minute.  We had her; seven of us; doors locked, and all
that.  No weeping, no wailing; I could not understand then, but I do
now.  It's in the blood.  Hargreave was as peaceful as a St. Bernard
dog till you cornered him, and then he was a lion.  Oh, the devil!
Slipped out of our fingers like an eel.  And across the street, Jones
in a racer!  I never paid any particular attention to Jones, but from
now on I shall.  The girl may or may not know where the money is, but
Jones does, Jones does!  Two men shall watch.  Felton on the street and
Orloff from the windows of the deserted house.  With opera glasses he
will be able to take note of all that happens in the house during the
day.  He will be able to see the girl's room.  And that's the important
point.  It was a good plan, little woman; and it would have been plain
sailing if only we had remembered that the girl was Hargreave's
daughter.  Be very careful hereafter when you call on her.  A night
like this will have made her suspicious of every one.  Our hope lies
with you.  Anything on your mind?"
"Yes.  Why not insert a personal in the Herald?"  She drew some
writing paper toward her and scribbled a few words.
He read: "Florence--the hiding place is discovered.  Remove it to a
more secret spot at once.  S.H."--He laughed and shook his head.  "I'm
afraid that will never do."
"If she reads it, Jones will.  The man with the opera glasses may see
something.  There's a chance Jones might become worried."
"Well, we'll give it a chance."
It was midnight when he made his departure.  As he stepped into the
street, he glanced about cautiously.  On the corner he saw a policeman
swinging his night stick.  Otherwise the street was deserted.  Braine
proceeded jauntily down the street.
And yet, from the darkened doors of the house across the way, the
figure of a man emerged and stood contemplating the windows of the
Perigoff apartment.  Suddenly the lights went out.  The watcher made no
effort to follow Braine.  The knowledge he was after did not
necessitate any such procedure.
Of course, Florence read the "personal."  She took the newspaper at
once to Jones, who smiled grimly.
"You see, I trust you."
"And so long as you continue to trust me no harm will befall you.  You
were left in my care by your father.  I am to guard you at the expense
of my life.  Last night's affair was a miracle.  The next time you will
not find it so easy to escape."
Nor did she.
"There will be no next time," gravely.  "But I am going to ask you a
direct question.  Is my father alive?"
The butler's brow puckered.  "I have promised to say nothing, one way
or the other."
She laughed.
"Why do you laugh?"
"I laugh because if he were dead there would be no earthly reason for
your not saying so at once.  But I hate money, the name of it, the
sound of it, the sight of it.  It is at the bottom of all wars and
crimes.  I despise it!"
"The root of all evil.  Yet it performs many noble deeds.  But never
mind the money.  Let us give our attention to this personal.  Doubtless
it originated in the same mind which conceived the letter.  Your father
would never have inserted such a personal.  What!  Give his enemies a
chance to learn his secret?  No.  On the other hand, I want you to show
this personal to all you meet to-day, Susan, the reporter, to
everybody.  Talk about it.  Say that you wonder what you shall do.
Trust no one with your real thoughts."
"Not even you, Mr. Jones," thought the girl as she nodded.
"And tell them that you showed it to me and that I appeared worried."
That night there was a meeting of the organization called the Black
Hundred.  Braine asked if any one knew what the Hargreave butler looked
like.
"I had a glimpse of him the other night; but being unprepared, I might
not recognize him again."
Vroon described Jones minutely.  Braine could almost see the portrait.
"Vroon, that memory of yours is worth a lot of money," was his only
comment.
"I hope it will be worth more soon."
"I believe I'll be able to recognize Mr. Jones if I see him.  Who is he
and what is he?"
"He has been with Hargreave for fourteen years.  There was a homicidal
case in which Jones was active.  Hargreave saved him.  He is faithful
and uncommunicative.  Money will not touch him.  If he does know where
that million is, hot irons could not make him own up to it.  The only
way is to watch him, follow him, wait for the moment when he'll grow
careless.  No man is always on his mettle; he lets up sooner or later."
"He is being watched, as you know."
Vroon nodded approvingly.  "The captain of the tramp steamer Orient,
by the way, was seen with a roll of money.  He was in one of the
water-front saloons, bragging how he had hoodwinked some one."
"Did he say where he'd got the cash?" asked Braine.
"They tried to pump him on that, but he shut up.  Well, we have agreed
that Felton shall watch from the street and Orloff from the window.
Orloff will whistle if he sees Jones removing anything from any of the
rooms.  The rest will be left to Felton."
"And, Felton, my friend," said Braine softly--he always spoke softly
when he was in a deadly humor--"Felton, you slept on duty the other
night.  Hargreave stole up, consulted Jones, and got away after
knocking me down.  The next failure will mean short shift.  Be warned!"
"I saw only you, sir.  So help me.  I was not asleep.  I saw you run
down the street after the taxicab.  I did not see any one else."
Braine shrugged.  "Remember what I said."
Felton bowed respectfully and made his exit.  He wished in his soul
that he might some day catch the master mind free of his eternal mask.
It was an iron hand which ruled them and there were friends of his
(Felton's) who had mysteriously vanished after a brief period of
rebellion.  The boss was a swell; probably belonged to clubs and
society which he adroitly pilfered.  The organization always had money.
Whenever there was a desperate job to be undertaken, Vroon simply
poured out the money necessary to promote it.  Whenever Braine and
Vroon became engaged in earnest conversation they talked Slav.  Braine
was never called by name here; the boss, simply that.
Well, ten per cent. of a million was a hundred thousand.  This would be
equally divided between the second ten of the Black Hundred.  Another
ten per cent. would go to eighty members; the balance would be divided
between Vroon and the boss.  But his soul rebelled at being ordered
about like so much dirt under another man's feet.  He would take his
ten thousand and make the grand getaway.
The next afternoon the countess called upon Florence.  Nothing was said
about the adventure, and this fact created a vague unrest in the
scheming woman's mind.  She realized that she must play her cards more
carefully than ever.  Not the least distrust must be permitted to enter
the child's head.  Once that happened good-by to the wonderful
emeralds.  Was it that she really craved the stone?  Was it not rather
a venom acquired from the knowledge that this child's mother had won
what she herself, with all her cleverness, was not sure of--Braine's
love?  Did he really care for her or was she only the cats-paw to pluck
his hot chestnuts from the fire?
When Florence showed her the "personal," her vague doubts became
instantly dissipated.  The child would not have shown her the newspaper
had there been any distrust on her part.
"My child, your father is alive, then?" animatedly.
"We don't know," sadly.
"Why, I should say that this proves it."
"On the contrary, it proves nothing of the sort, since I have yet to
discover a treasure in this house.  I have hunted in every nook,
drawer; I've searched for panels, looked in trunks for false bottoms.
Nothing, nothing!  Ah, if I could only find it!"
"And what would you do with it?"
"Take it at once to some bank and offer the whole of it for the safe
return of my father, every penny of it.  I don't know what to do, which
way to turn," tears gathering in her eyes and they were genuine tears,
too.  "There are millions in stocks and bonds and I can not touch a
penny of it because the legal documents have not been found.  I can't
even prove that I am his daughter, except for half an old bracelet, and
my father's lawyers say that that would not hold in any court."
"You were born in St. Petersburg, my dear.  Have the embassy there look
up the birth registers."
"That would not put me into possession.  Nothing but the return of my
father will avail me.  And there's a horrible thought always of my not
being his real daughter."
"There's no doubt in my mind.  I have only to recall Katrina's face to
know whose child you are.  But what will you live on?"  Here was a far
greater mixup than she had calculated upon.  Supposing after all it was
only a resemblance, that the child was not Hargreave's, a substitute
just to blind the Black Hundred?  To keep them away from the true
daughter?  Her mind grew bewildered over such possibilities.  The
