"Incog!"  Mr. Thorndon leaned forward in his chair and drew down his
eyebrow tightly against the rim of his monocle.
"Yes, sir.  I take it that you are Lord Henry Monckton, ninth Baron of
Dimbledon."
Master and man exchanged a rapid glance.
"Tibbets," said the master coldly, "you registered."
"Yes, sir."
"What did you register?"
"Oh," interposed the reporter, "it was the name Dimbledon caught my
eye, sir.  You see, there was a paragraph in one of our London
exchanges that you had sailed for America.  I'm what we call a hotel
reporter; hunt up prominent and interesting people for interviews.  I'm
sure yours is a very interesting story, sir."  The reporter was a
pleasant, affable young man, and that was why he was so particularly
efficient in his chosen line of work.
"I was not prepared to disclose my identity so soon," said Lord
Monckton ruefully.  "But since you have stumbled upon the truth, it is
far better that I give you the facts as they are.  Interviewing is a
novel experience.  What do you wish to know, sir?"
And thus it was that, next morning, New York--and the continent as
well--learned that Lord Henry Monckton, ninth Baron of Dimbledon, had
arrived in America on a pleasure trip.  The story read more like the
scenario of a romantic novel than a page from life.  For years the
eighth Baron of Dimbledon had lived in seclusion, practically
forgotten.  In India he had a bachelor brother, a son and a grandson.
One day he was notified of the death (by bubonic plague) of these three
male members of his family, the baron himself collapsed and died
shortly after.  The title and estate went to another branch of the
family.  A hundred years before, a daughter of the house had run away
with the head-gardener and been disowned.  The great-great-grand-son of
this woman became the ninth baron.  The present baron's life was
recounted in full; and an adventurous life it had been, if the reporter
was to be relied upon.  The interview appeared in a London journal,
with the single comment--"How those American reporters misrepresent
things!"
It made capital reading, however; and in servants' halls the newspaper
became very popular.  It gave rise to a satirical leader on the
editorial page: "What's the matter with us republicans?  Liberty,
fraternity and equality; we flaunt that flag as much as we ever did.
Yet, what a howdy-do when a title comes along!  What a craning of
necks, what a kotowing!  How many earldoms and dukedoms are not based
upon some detestable action, some despicable service rendered some
orgiastic sovereign!  The most honorable thing about the so-called
nobility is generally the box-hedge which surrounds the manse.  Kotow;
pour our millions into the bottomless purses of spendthrifts; give them
our most beautiful women.  There is no remedy for human nature."
It was this editorial which interested Killigrew far more than the
story which had given birth to it.
"That's the way to shout."
"Does it do any good?" asked Kitty.  "If we had a lord for breakfast--I
mean, at breakfast--would you feel at ease?  Wouldn't you be watching
and wondering what it was that made him your social superior?"
"Social superior?  Bah!"
"That's no argument.  As this editor wisely says, there's no remedy for
human nature.  When I was a silly schoolgirl I often wondered if there
wasn't a duke in the family, or even a knight.  How do you account for
that feeling?"
"You were probably reading Bertha M. Clay," retorted her father, only
too glad of such an opening.
"What is your opinion of titles, Mr. Webb?" she asked calmly.
"Mr. Webb is an Englishman, Kitty," reminded her mother.
"All the more reason for wishing his point of view," was the reply.
"A title, if managed well, is a fine business asset."  Thomas stared
gravely at his egg-cup.
"A humorist!" cried Killigrew, as if he had discovered a dodo.
"Really, no.  I am typically English, sir."  But Thomas was smiling
this time; and when he smiled Kitty found him very attractive.  She was
leaning on her elbows, her folded hands propping her chin; and in his
soul Thomas knew that she was looking at him with those boring critical
blue eyes of hers.  Why was she always looking at him like that?  "It
is notorious that we English are dull and stupid," he said.
"Now you are making fun of us," said Kitty seriously.
"I beg your pardon!"
She dropped her hands from under her chin and laughed.  "Do you really
wish to know the real secret of our antagonism, Mr. Webb?"
"I should be very glad."
"Well, then, we each of us wear a chip on our shoulder, simply because
we've never taken the trouble to know each other well.  Most English we
Americans meet are stupid and caddish and uninteresting; and most of
the Americans you see are boastful, loud-talking and money-mad.  Our
mutual impressions are wholly wrong to begin with."
"I have no chip on my shoulder," Thomas refuted eagerly.
"Neither have I."
"But I have," laughed her father.  "I eat Englishmen for breakfast;
fe-fo-fum style."
How democratic indeed these kindly, unpretentious people were! thought
Thomas.  A multimillionaire as amiable as a clerk; a daughter who would
have graced any court in Europe with her charm and elfin beauty.  Up to
a month ago he had held all Americans in tolerant contempt.
It was as Kitty said: the real Englishman and the real American seldom
met.
He did not realize as yet that his position in this house was unique.
In England all great merchants and statesmen and nobles had one or more
private secretaries about.  He believed it to be a matter of course
that Americans followed the same custom.  He would have been
wonderfully astonished to learn that in all this mighty throbbing city
of millions--people and money--there might be less than a baker's dozen
who occupied simultaneously the positions of private secretary and
friend of the family.  Mr. Killigrew had his private secretary, but
this gentleman rarely saw the inside of the Killigrew home; it wasn't
at all necessary that he should.  Killigrew was a sensible man; his
business hours began when he left home and ended when he entered it.
"Do you know any earls or dukes?" asked Killigrew, folding his napkin.
"Really, no.  I have moved in a very different orbit.  I know many of
them by sight, however."  He did not think it vital to add that he had
often sold them collars and suspenders.
The butler and the second man pulled back the ladies' chairs.
Killigrew hurried away to his offices; Kitty and her mother went
up-stairs; and Thomas returned to his desk in the library.  He was
being watched by Kitty; nothing overt, nothing tangible, yet he sensed
it: from the first day he had entered this house.  It oppressed him,
like a presage of disaster.  Back of his chair was a fireplace, above
this, a mirror.  Once--it was but yesterday--while with his back to his
desk, day-dreaming, he had seen her in the mirror.  She stood in the
doorway, a hand resting lightly against the portiere.  There was no
smile on her face.  The moment he stirred, she vanished.
Watched.  Why?
CHAPTER XI
The home-bureau of charities was a success from the start; but beyond
the fact that it served to establish Thomas Webb as private secretary
in the Killigrew family, I was not deeply interested.  I know that
Thomas ran about a good deal, delving into tenements and pedigrees,
judging candidates, passing or condemning, and that he earned his
salary, munificent as it appeared to him.  Forbes told me that he
wouldn't have done the work for a thousand a week; and Forbes, like
Panurge, had ten ways of making money and twelve ways of spending it.
The amazing characteristic about Thomas was his unaffected modesty, his
naturalness, his eagerness to learn, his willingness to accept
suggestions, no matter from what source.  Haberdashers' clerks--at
least, those I have known--are superior persons; they know it all, you
can not tell them a single thing.  I can call to witness dozens of
neckties and shirts I shall never dare wear in public.  But perhaps
seven years among a clientele of earls and dukes, who were set in their
ideas, had something to do with Thomas' attitude.
Killigrew was very well satisfied with the venture.  He had had some
doubts at the beginning: a man whose past ended at Pier 60 did not look
like a wise speculation, especially in a household.  But quite
unconsciously Thomas himself had taken these doubts out of Killigrew's
mind and--mislaid them.  The subscriptions to all the suffragette
weeklies and monthlies were dropped; and there were no more banners
reading "Votes for Women" tacked over the doorways.  Besides this, the
merchant had a man to talk to, after dinner, he with his cigar and
Thomas with his pipe, this privilege being insisted upon by the women
folk, who had tact to leave the two men to themselves.
Thomas amused the millionaire.  Here was a young man of a species with
whom he had not come into contact in many years: a boy who did not know
the first thing about poker, or bridge, or pinochle, who played
outrageous billiards and who did not know who the latest reigning
theatrical beauty was, and moreover, did not care a rap; who could
understand a joke within reasonable time if he couldn't tell one; who
was neither a nincompoop nor a mollycoddle.  Thomas interested
Killigrew more and more as the days went past.
Happily, the voice of conscience is heard by no ears but one's own.
After luncheons Thomas had a good deal of time on his hands; and, to
occupy this time he returned to his old love, composition.  He began to
rewrite his romance; and one day Kitty discovered him pegging away at
it.  He rose from his chair instantly.
"Will you be wanting me, Miss Killigrew?"
"Only to say that father will be detained down-town to-night and that
you will be expected to take mother and me to the theater.  It is one
of your English musical comedies; and very good, they say."
Thomas had been dreading such a situation.  As yet there had been no
entertaining at the Killigrew home; nearly all their friends were out
of town for the summer; thus far he had escaped.
"I am sorry, Miss Killigrew, but I have no suitable clothes."  Which
was plain unvarnished truth.  "And I do not possess an opera-hat."  And
never did.
Kitty laughed pleasantly.  "We are very democratic in this house, as by
this time you will have observed.  In the summer we do not dress; we
take our amusements comfortably.  Ordinarily we would be at our summer
home on Long Island; but delayed repairs will not let us into it till
August.  Then we shall all take a vacation.  You will join us as you
are; that is, of course, if you are not too busy with your own affairs."
"Never too busy to be of service to you, Miss Killigrew.  I'm only
scribbling."
"A book?"--interestedly.
"Bally rot, possibly.  Would you like to read it?"--one of the best
inspirations he had ever had.  He was not one of those silly
individuals who hem and haw when some one discovers they have the itch
for writing, whose sole aim is to have the secret dragged out of them,
with hypocritical reluctance.
"May I?"  Her friendly aloofness fell away from her as if touched by
magic.  "I am an inveterate reader.  Besides, I know several famous
editors, and perhaps I could help you."
"That would be jolly."
"And you are writing a story, and never told us about it!"
"It never occurred to me to tell you.  I shall be very glad to go to
the theater with you and Mrs. Killigrew."
Kitty tucked the romance under her arm and flew to her room with it.
This Thomas was as full of surprises as a Christmas-box.
He eyed the empty doorway speculatively.  He rather preferred the
friendly aloofness; otherwise some fatal nonsense might enter his head.
He resumed his chair and transferred his gaze to the blotter.  He added
a few pothooks by the way: numerals in addition and subtraction (for he
was of Scotch descent), a name which he scratched out and scrawled
again and again scratched out.  He examined the contents of his wallet.
How many pounds did a dress-suit cost in this hurly-burly country?
This question could be answered only in one way.  He hastened out into
the hall, put on his hat, made for the subway, and got out directly
opposite the offices of Killigrew and Company, sugar, coffee and
spices.  London-bred, it did not take him long to find his way about.
The racket disturbed him; that was all.
The building in which Killigrew and Company had its offices belonged to
Killigrew personally.  It had cost him a round million to build, but
the office-rentals were making it a fine investment.  These ornate
office-buildings caused Thomas to marvel unceasingly.  In London
cubby-holes were sufficient.  If merchants like Killigrew, generally
these were along the water-front; creaky, old, dim-windowed.  In this
bewildering country a man conducted his business as from a palace.  The
warehouses were distinct establishments.
Thomas entered the portals, stepped cautiously into one of the
express-elevators (so they insisted upon calling them here), and was
shot up to the fourteenth floor, all of which was occupied by Killigrew
and Company.  It was Thomas' first venture in this district.  And he
learned the amazing fact that it was ordinarily as easy to see Mr.
Killigrew as it was to see King George.  Office-boys, minor clerks,
head clerks, managers; they quizzed and buffeted him hither and
thither.  He never thought to state at the outset that he was Mrs.
Killigrew's private secretary; he merely said that it was very
important that he should see Mr. Killigrew at once.
"Mr. Killigrew is busy," he was informed by the assistant manager, at
whose desk Thomas finally arrived.  "If you will give me your card I'll
have it sent in to him."
Thomas confessed that he had no card.  The assistant manager grew
distinctly chilling.
"If you will be so kind as to inform Mr. Killigrew that Mr. Webb, Mrs.
Killigrew's private secretary . . ."
"Why didn't you say that at once, Mr. Webb?  Here, boy; tell Mr.
Killigrew that Mr. Webb wishes to see him.  You might just as well
follow the boy."
Killigrew was smoking, and perusing the baseball edition of his
favorite evening paper.  All this red-tape to approach a man who wasn't
doing anything more vital than that!  Thomas smiled.  It was a
wonderful people.
"Why, hello, Webb!  What's the matter?  Anything wrong at the
house?"--anxiously.
"No, Mr. Killigrew.  I came to see you on a personal matter."
Killigrew dropped the newspaper on his desk, a little frown between his
eyes.  He made no inquiry.
"Miss Killigrew tells me that you will not be home this evening, and
that I am to take her and Mrs. Killigrew to the theater."
"Anything in the way to prevent you?"  Killigrew appeared vastly
relieved for some reason.
"As a matter of fact, sir, I haven't the proper clothes; and I thought
you might advise me where to go to obtain them."
Killigrew laughed until the tears started.  The very heartiness of it
robbed it of all rudeness.  "Good lord! and I was worrying my head off.
Webb, you're all right.  Do you need any funds?"
"I believe I have enough."  Thomas appeared to be disturbed not in the
least by the older man's hilarity.  It was not infectious, because he
did not understand it.
"Glad you came to me.  Always come to me when you're in doubt about
anything.  I'm no authority on clothes, but my secretary is.  I'll have
him take you to a tailor where you can rent a suit for to-night.  He'll
take your measure, and by the end of the week . . ."  He did not finish
the sentence, but pressed one of the many buttons on his desk.  "Clark,
this is Mr. Webb, Mrs. Killigrew's secretary.  He wants some clothes.
Take him along with you."
Alone again, Killigrew smiled broadly.  The humor of the situation did
not blind him to the salient fact that this Webb was a man of no small
courage.  He recognized in this courage a commendable shrewdness also:
Webb wanted the right thing, honest clothes for honest dollars.  A man
like that would be well worth watching.  And for a moment he had
thought that Webb had fallen in love with Kitty and wanted to marry
her!  He chuckled.  Clothes!
What a boy Kitty would have made!  What an infallible eye she had for
measuring a person!  No servant-question ever dangled its hot
interrogation point before his eyes.  Kitty saw to that.  She was the
real manager of the household affairs, for all that he paid the bills.
Some day she would marry a proper man; but heaven keep that day as far
off as possible.  What would he do without Kitty?  Always ready to
perch on his knee, to smooth the day-cares from his forehead, to fend
off trouble, to make laughter in the house.  He was not going to love
the man who eventually carried her off.  He was always dreading that
day; young men about the house, the yacht and the summer home worried
him.  The whole lot of them were not worthy to tie the laces of her
shoes, much as they might yearn to do so.
And all Webb wanted was a tailor!  He would give a hundred for the
right to tell this scare to the boys at the club, but Webb's ingenuous
confidence did not merit betrayal.  Still, nothing should prevent him
from telling Kitty, who knew how to keep a secret.  He picked up the
newspaper and resumed his computation of averages (batting), chuckling
audibly from time to time.  Clothes!
At quarter to six Thomas returned to the house, laden with fat bundles
which he hurried secretly to his room.  He had never worn a dress-suit.
He had often guilelessly dreamed of possessing one: between paragraphs,
as another young man might have dreamed of vanquishing a rival.  It was
inborn that we should wish to appear well in public; to better one's
condition, or, next best, to make the public believe one has.  Thomas
was deeply observant and quickly adaptive.  Between the man who goes to
school with books and the man who goes to school in books there is
wide difference.  What we are forced to learn seldom lifts us above the
ordinary; what we learn by inclination plows our fields and reaps our
harvests.  It is as natural as breathing that we should like our
tonics, mental as well as physical, sugar-coated.
Thomas had never worn a dress-suit; but in the matter of collars and
cravats and shirts he knew the last word.  But why should he wish to
wear that mournfully conventional suit in which we are supposed to
enjoy ourselves?  She had told him not to bother about dress.  Was it
that very nonsense he dreaded, insidiously attacking the redoubts of
his common sense?
That evening at dinner Kitty nor her mother appeared to notice the
change.  This gratified him; he knew that outwardly there was nothing
left to desire or attain.
Kitty began to talk about the romance immediately.  She had found the
beginning very exciting; it was out of the usual run of stories; and if
it was all as good as the first part, there would be some editors glad
to get hold of it.  So much for the confidence of youth.  The Black
Veil, as I have reason to know, lies at the bottom of Thomas' ancient
trunk.
Long as he lived he would never forget the enjoyment of that night.
The electric signs along Broadway interested him intensely; he babbled
about them boyishly.  Theater outside and theater within; a great drama
of light and shadow, of comedy and tragedy; for he gazed upon the scene
with all his poet's eyes.  He enjoyed the opera, the color and music,
the propinquity of Kitty.  Sometimes their shoulders touched; the
indefinable perfume of her hair thrilled him.
Kitty had seen all these things so many times that she no longer
experienced enthusiasm; but his was so genuine, so un-English, that she
found it impossible to escape the contagion.  She did not bubble over,
however; on the contrary, she sat through the performance strangely
subdued, dimly alarmed over what she had done.
As they were leaving the lobby of the theater, a man bumped against
Thomas, quite accidentally.
"I beg your pardon!" said the stranger, politely raising his hat and
passing on.
Thomas' hand went clumsily to his own hat, which he fumbled and dropped
and ran after frantically across the mosaic flooring.
A ghost; yes, sir, Thomas had seen a ghost.
CHAPTER XII
I left Thomas scrambling about the mosaic lobby of the theater for his
opera-hat.  When he recovered it, it resembled one of those accordions
upon which vaudeville artists play Mendelssohn's Wedding March and the
latest ragtime (by request).  Some one had stepped on it.  Among the
unanswerable questions stands prominently: Why do we laugh when a man
loses his hat?  Thomas burned with a mixture of rage and shame; shame
that Kitty should witness his discomfiture and rage that, by the time
he had retrieved the hat, the ghost had disappeared.
However, Thomas acted as a polished man of the world, as if
eight-dollar opera-hats were mere nothings.  He held it out for Kitty
to inspect, smiling.  Then he crushed it under his arm (where the
broken spring behaved like an unlatched jack-in-the-box) and led the
way to the Killigrew limousine.
"I am sorry, Mr. Webb," said Kitty, biting her lips.
"Now, now!  Honestly, don't you know, I hated the thing.  I knew
something would happen.  I never realized till this moment that it is
an art all by itself to wear a high hat without feeling and looking
like a silly ass."
He laughed, honestly and heartily; and Kitty laughed, and so did her
mother.  Subtle barriers were swept away, and all three of them became
what they had not yet been, friends.  It was worth many opera-hats.
"Kitty, I'm beginning to like Thomas," said her mother, later.  "He was
very nice about the hat.  Most men would have been in a frightful
temper over it."
"I'm beginning to like him, too, mother.  It was cruel, but I wanted to
shout with laughter as he dodged in and out of the throng.  Did you
notice how he smiled when he showed it to me?  A woman stepped on it.
When she screamed I thought there was going to be a riot."
"He's the most guileless young man I ever saw."
"He really and truly is," assented Kitty.
"I like him because he isn't afraid to climb up five flights of
tenement stairs, or to shake hands with the tenants themselves.  I was
afraid at first."
"Afraid of what?"
"That you might have made a mistake in selecting him so casually for
our secretary."
"Perhaps I have," murmured Kitty, under her breath.
Alone in her bedroom the smile left Kitty's face.  A brooding frown
wrinkled the smooth forehead.  It was there when Celeste came in; it
remained there after Celeste departed; and it vanished only under the
soft, dispelling fingers of sleep.
There was a frown on Thomas' forehead, too; bitten deep.  He tried to
read, he tried to smoke, he tried to sleep; futilely.  In the middle of
the banquet, as it were, like a certain Assyrian king in Babylon,
Thomas saw the Chaldaic characters on the wall: wherever he looked,
written in fire--Thou fool!
CHAPTER XIII
Two mornings later the newspapers announced the important facts that
Miss Kitty Killigrew had gone to Bar Harbor for the week, and that the
famous uncut emeralds of the Maharajah of Something-or-other-apur had
been stolen; nothing co-relative in the departure of Kitty and the
green stones, coincidence only.
The Indian prince was known the world over as gem-mad.  He had
thousands in unset gems which he neither sold, wore, nor gave away.
His various hosts and hostesses lived in mortal terror during a sojourn
of his; for he carried his jewels with him always; and often, whenever
the fancy seized him, he would go abruptly to his room, spread a square
of cobalt-blue velvet on the floor, squat in his native fashion beside
it, and empty his bags of diamonds and rubies and pearls and sapphires
and emeralds and turquoises.  To him they were beautiful toys.
Whenever he was angry, they soothed him; whenever he was happy, they
rounded out this happiness; they were his variant moods.
He played a magnificent game.  Round the diamonds he would make a
circle of the palest turquoises.  Upon this pyramid of brilliants he
would place some great ruby, sapphire, or emerald.  Then his servants
were commanded to raise and lower the window-curtains alternately.
These shifting contra-lights put a strange life into the gems; they not
only scintillated, they breathed.  Or, perhaps the pyramid would be of
emeralds; and he would peer into their cool green depths as he might
have peered into the sea.
He kept these treasures in an ornamented iron-chest, old, battered, of
simple mechanism.  It had been his father's and his father's father's;
it had been in the family since the days of the Peacock Throne, and
most of the jewels besides.  Night and day the chest was guarded.  It
lay upon an ancient Ispahan rug, in the center of the bedroom, which no
hotel servant was permitted to enter.  His five servants saw to it that
all his wants were properly attended to, that no indignity to his high
caste might be offered: as having his food prepared by pariah hands in
the hotel kitchens, foul hands to make his bed.  He was thoroughly
religious; the gods of his fathers were his in all their ramifications;
he wore the Brahmin thread about his neck.
He was unique among Indian princes.  An Oxford graduate, he
persistently and consistently clung to the elaborate costumes of his
native state.  And when he condescended to visit any one, it was
invariably stipulated that he should be permitted to bring along his
habits, his costumes and his retinue.  In his suite or apartments he
was the barbarian; in the drawing-room, in the ballroom, in the
dining-room (where he ate nothing), he was the suave, the courteous,
the educated Oriental.  He drank no wines, made his own cigarettes, and
never offered his hand to any one, not even to the handsome women who
admired his beautiful skin and his magnificent ropes of pearls.
Some one had entered the bedroom, overpowered the guard, and looted the
bag containing the emeralds.  The prince, the lightest of sleepers, had
slept through it all.  He had awakened with a violent headache, as had
four of his servants.  The big Rajput who had stood watch was in the
hospital, still unconscious.
All the way from San Francisco the police had been waiting for such a
catastrophe.  The newspapers had taken up and published broadcast the
story of the prince's pastime.  Naturally enough, there was not a crook
in all America who was not waiting for a possible chance.  Ten
emeralds, weighing from six to ten carats each; a fortune, even if
broken up.
Haggerty laid aside the newspaper and gravely finished his ham and eggs.
"I'll take a peek int' this, Milly," he said to his wife.  "We've been
waiting for this t' happen.  A million dollars in jools in a chest y'
could open with a can-opener.  Queer ginks, these Hindus.  We see lots
o' fakers, but this one is the real article.  Mebbe a reward.  All
right; little ol' Haggerty can use th' money.  I may not be home t'
supper."
"Anything more about Mr. Crawford's valet?"
Haggerty scowled.  "Not a line.  I've been living in gambling joints,
but no sign of him.  He gambled in th' ol' days; some time 'r other
he'll wander in somewhere an' try t' copper th' king.  No sign of him
round Crawford's ol' place.  But I'll get him; it's a hunch.  By-by!"
Later, the detective was conducted into the Maharajah's reception-room.
The prince, in his soft drawling English (far more erudite and polished
than Haggerty's, if not so direct), explained the situation, omitting
no detail.  He would give two thousand five hundred for the recovery of
the stones.
"At what are they valued?"
"By your customs appraisers, forty thousand.  To me they are priceless."
"Six t' ten carats?  Why, they're worth more than that."
The prince smiled.  "That was for the public."
"I'll take a look int' your bedroom," said Haggerty, rising.
"Oh, no; that is not at all necessary," protested the prince.
"How d' you suppose I'm going t' find out who done it, or how it was
done, then?" demanded Haggerty, bewildered.
A swift oriental gesture.
The hotel manager soothed Haggerty by explaining that the prince's
caste would not permit an alien to touch anything in the bedroom while
it contained the prince's belongings.
"Well, wouldn't that get your goat!" exploded Haggerty.  "That lets me
out.  You'll have to get a clairyvoint."
The prince suggested that he be given another suite.  His servants
would remove his belongings.  He promised that nothing else should be
touched.
"How long'll it take you?"
"An hour."
"All right," assented Haggerty.  "Who's got th' suite across th' hall?"
he asked of the manager, as they left the prince.
"Lord Monckton.  He and his valet left this morning for Bar Harbor.
Back Tuesday.  A house-party of Fifth Avenue people."
"Uhuh."  Haggerty tugged at his mustache.  "I might look around in
there while I'm waiting for his Majesty t' change.  Did y'ever hear th'
likes?  Bug-house."
"But he pays a hundred the day, Haggerty.  I'll let you privately into
Lord Monckton's suite.  But you'll waste your time."
"Sure he left this morning?"
"I'll phone the office and make sure. . . .  Lord Monckton left shortly
after midnight.  His man followed early this morning.  Lord Monckton
went by his host's yacht.  But the man followed by rail."
"What's his man look like?"
"Slim and very dark, and very quiet."
"Well, I'll take a look."
The manager was right.  Haggerty had his trouble for nothing.  There
was no clue whatever in Lord Monckton's suite.  There was no paper in
the waste-baskets, in the fireplace; the blotters on the writing-desk
were spotless.  Some clothes were hanging in the closets, but these
revealed only their fashionable maker's name.  In the reception-room,
on a table, a pack of cards lay spread out in an unfinished game of
solitaire.  All the small baggage had been taken for the journey.
Truth to tell, Haggerty had not expected to find anything; he had not
cared to sit idly twiddling his thumbs while the Maharajah vacated his
rooms.
In the bathroom (Lord Monckton's) he found two objects which aroused
his silent derision: a bottle of brilliantine and an ointment made of
walnut-juice.  Probably this Lord Monckton was a la-de-dah chap.  Bah!
Once in the prince's vacated bedroom Haggerty went to work with classic
thoroughness.  Not a square foot of the room escaped his vigilant eye.
The thief had not entered by the windows; he had come into the room by
the door which gave to the corridor.  He stood on a chair and examined
the transom sill.  The dust was undisturbed.  He inspected the keyhole;
sniffed; stood up, bent and sniffed again.  It was an odor totally
unknown to him.  He stuffed the corner of his fresh handkerchief into
the keyhole, drew it out and sniffed that.  Barely perceptible.  He
wrapped the corner into the heart of the handkerchief, and put it back
into his pocket.  Some powerful narcotic had been forced into the room
through the keyhole.  This would account for the prince's headache.
These Orientals were as bad as the Dutch; they never opened their
windows for fresh air.
Beyond this faint, mysterious odor there was nothing else.  The first
step would be to ascertain whether this narcotic was occidental or
oriental.
"Nothing doing yet," he confessed to the anxious manager.  "But there
ain't any cause for you t' worry.  You're not responsible for jools not
left in th' office."
"That isn't the idea.  It's having the thing happen in this hotel.
We'll add another five hundred if you succeed.  Not in ten years has
there been so much as a spoon missing.  What do you think about it?"
"Big case.  I'll be back in a little while.  Don't tell th' reporters
anything."
Haggerty was on his way to a near-by chemist whom he knew, when he
espied Crawford in his electric, stalled in a jam at Forty-second and
Broadway.  He had not seen the archeologist since his return from
Europe.
"Hey, Mr. Crawford!" Haggerty bawled, putting his head into the window.
"Why, Haggerty, how are you?  Can I give you a lift?"
"If it won't trouble you."
"Not at all.  Pretty hot weather."
"For my business.  Wish I could run off t' th' seashore like you folks.
Heard o' th' Maharajah's emeralds?"
"Yes.  You're on that case?"
"Trying t' get on it.  Looks blank jus' now.  Clever bit o' work;
something new.  But I've got news for you, though.  Your man Mason is
back here again.  I thought I wouldn't say nothing t' you till I put my
hand on his shoulder."
"I'm sorry.  I had hoped that the unfortunate devil would have had
sense to remain abroad."
"Then you knew he was over there?"--quickly.  "See him?"
"No.  I shall never feel anything but sorry for him.  You can not live
with a man as I did, for ten years, and not regret his misstep."
"Oh, I understand your side.  But that man was a born crook, an' th'
cleverest I ever run up against.  For all you know, he may have been
back of a lot o' tricks Central never got hold of.  I'll bet that each
time that you went over with him, he took loot an' disposed of it.  I
may be pig-headed sometimes, but I'm dead sure o' this.  Wait some day
an' see.  Say, take a whiff o' this an' tell me what y' think it is."
Haggerty produced the handkerchief.
"I don't smell anything," said Crawford.
Haggerty seized the handkerchief and sniffed, gently, then violently.
All he could smell was reminiscent of washtubs.  The mysterious odor
was gone.
CHAPTER XIV
This is not a story of the Maharajah's emeralds; only a knot in the
landing-net of which I have already spoken.  I may add with equal
frankness that Haggerty, upon his own initiative, never proceeded an
inch beyond the keyhole episode.  It was one of his many failures; for,
unlike the great fictional detectives who never fail, Haggerty was
human, and did.  It is only fair to add, however, that when he failed
only rarely did any one else succeed.  If ever criminal investigation
was a man's calling, it was Haggerty's.  He had infinite patience, the
heart of a lion and the strength of a gorilla.  Had he been highly
educated, as a detective he would have been a fizzle; his mind would
have been concerned with variant lofty thoughts, and the sordid would
have repelled him: and all crimes are painted on a background of
sordidness.  In one thing Haggerty stood among his peers and topped
many of them; in his long record there was not one instance of his
arresting an innocent man.
So Haggerty had his failures; there are geniuses on both sides of the
law; and the pariah-dog is always just a bit quicker mentally than the
thoroughbred hound who hunts him; indeed, to save his hide he has to be.
Nearly every great fact is like a well-balanced kite; it has for its
tail a whimsy.  Haggerty, on a certain day, received twenty-five
hundred dollars from the Hindu prince and five hundred more from the
hotel management.  The detective bore up under the strain with stoic
complacency.  "The Blind Madonna of the Pagan--Chance" always had her
hand upon his shoulder.
Kitty went to Bar Harbor, her mother to visit friends in Orange.
Thomas walked with a straight spine always; but it stiffened to think
that, without knowing a solitary item about his past, they trusted him
with the run of the house.  The first day there was work to do; the
second day, a little less; the third, nothing at all.  So he moped
about the great house, lonesome as a forgotten dog.  He wrote a sonnet
on being lonesome, tore it up and flung the scraps into the
waste-basket.  Once, he seated himself at the piano and picked out with
clumsy forefinger Walking Down the Old Kent Road.  Kitty could play.
Often in the mornings, while at his desk, he had heard her; and oddly
enough, he seemed to sense her moods by what she played.  (That's the
poet.)  When she played Chopin or Chaminade she went about gaily all
the day; when she played Beethoven, Grieg or Bach, Thomas felt the
presence of shadows.
There was a magnificent library, mostly editions de luxe.  Thomas
smiled over the many uncut volumes.  True, Dickens, Dumas and Stevenson
were tolerably well-thumbed; but the host of thinkers and poets and
dramatists and theologians, in their hand-tooled Levant . . . !  Away
in an obscure corner (because of its cheap binding) he came across a
set of Lamb.  He took out a volume at random and glanced at the
fly-leaf--"Kitty Killigrew, Smith College."  Then he went into the body
of the book.  It was copiously marked and annotated.  There was
something so intimate in the touch of the book that he felt he was
committing a sacrilege, looking as it were into Kitty's soul.  Most men
would have gone through the set.  Thomas put the book away.  Thou fool,
indeed!  What a hash he had made of his affairs!
He saw Killigrew at breakfast only.  The merchant preferred his club in
the absence of his family.
Early in the afternoon of the fourth day, Thomas received a telephone
call from Killigrew.
"Hello!  That you, Webb?"
"Yes.  Who is it?"
"Killigrew.  Got anything to do to-night?"
"No, Mr. Killigrew."
"You know where my club is, don't you?"
"Yes."
"Well, be there at seven for dinner.  Tell the butler and the
housekeeper.  Mr. Crawford has a box to the fight to-night, and he
thought perhaps you'd like to go along with us."
"A boxing-match?"
"Ten rounds, light-weights; and fast boys, too.  Both Irish."
"Really, I shall be glad to go."
"Webb?"
"Yes."
"Never use that word 'really' to me.  It's un-Irish."
Thomas heard a chuckle before the receiver at the other end clicked on
the hook.  What a father this hearty, kindly, humorous Irishman would
have made for a son!
In London Thomas' amusements had been divided into three classes.
During the season he went to the opera twice, to the music-halls once a
month, to a boxing-match whenever he could spare the shillings.  He
belonged to a workingmen's club not far from where he lived; an empty
warehouse, converted into a hall, with a platform in the center, from
which the fervid (and often misinformed) socialists harangued; and in
one corner was a fair gymnasium.  Every fortnight, for the sum of a
crown a head, three or four amateur bouts were arranged.  Thomas rarely
missed these exhibitions; he seriously considered it a part of his
self-acquired education.  What Englishman lives who does not?  Brains
and brawn make a man (or a country) invincible.
At seven promptly Thomas called at the club and asked for Mr.
Killigrew.  He was shown into the grill, where he was pleasantly
greeted by his host and Crawford and introduced to a young man about
his own age, a Mr. Forbes.  Thomas, dressed in his new stag-coat, felt
that he was getting along famously.  He had some doubt in regard to his
straw hat, however, till, after dinner, he saw that his companions were
wearing their Panamas.
Forbes, the artist, had reached that blasé period when, only upon rare
occasions, did he feel disposed to enlarge his acquaintance.  But this
fresh-skinned young Britisher went to his heart at once, a kindred
soul, and he adopted him forthwith.  He and Thomas paired off and
talked "fight" all the way to the boxing club.
There was a great crowd pressing about the entrance.  There were eddies
of turbulent spirits.  A crowd in America is unlike any other.  It is
full of meanness, rowdyism, petty malice.  A big fellow, smelling of
bad whisky, shouldered Killigrew aside, roughly.  Killigrew's Irish
blood flamed.
"Here!  Look where you're going!" he cried.
The man reached back and jammed Killigrew's hat down over his eyes.
Killigrew stumbled and fell, and Crawford and Forbes surged to his
rescue from the trampling feet.  Thomas, however, caught the ruffian's
right wrist, jammed it scientifically against the man's chest, took him
by the throat and bore him back, savagely and relentlessly.  The crowd,
packed as it was, gave ground.  With an oath the man struck.  Thomas
struck back, accurately.  Instantly the circle widened.  A fight
outside was always more interesting than one inside the ropes.  A blow
ripped open Thomas' shirt.  It became a slam-bang affair.  Thomas
knocked his man down just as a burly policeman arrived.  Naturally, he
caught hold of Thomas and called for assistance.  The wrong man first
is the invariable rule of the New York police.
"Milligan!" shouted Killigrew, as he sighted one of the club's
promoters.
Milligan recognized his millionaire patron and pushed to his side.
After due explanations, Thomas was liberated and the real culprit was
forced swearing through the press toward the patrol-wagon, always near
on such nights.  Eventually the four gained Crawford's box.  Aside from
a cut lip and a torn shirt, Thomas was uninjured.  If his
fairy-godmother had prearranged this fisticuff, she could not have done
anything better so far as Killigrew was concerned.
"Thomas," he said, as the main bout was being staged, the chairs and
water-pails and paraphernalia changed to fresh corners, "I'll remember
that turn.  If you're not Irish, it's no fault of yours.  I wish you
knew something about coffee."
"I enjoy drinking it," Thomas replied, smiling humorously.
Ever after the merchant-prince treated Thomas like a son; the kind of a
boy he had always wanted and could not have.  And only once again did
he doubt; and he longed to throttle the man who brought into light what
appeared to be the most damnable evidence of Thomas' perfidy.
CHAPTER XV
We chaps who write have magic carpets.
Whiz!
A marble balcony, overlooking the sea, which shimmered under the light
of the summer moon.  Lord Henry Monckton and Kitty leaned over the
baluster and silently watched the rush of the rollers landward and the
slink of them back to the sea.
For three days Kitty had wondered whether she liked or disliked Lord
Monckton.  The fact that he was the man who had bumped into Thomas that
night at the theater may have had something to do with her doddering.
He might at least have helped Thomas in recovering his hat.  Dark,
full-bearded, slender, with hands like a woman's, quiet of manner yet
affable, he was the most picturesque person at the cottage.  But there
was always something smoldering in those sleepy eyes of his that
suggested to Kitty a mockery.  It was not that recognizable mockery of
all those visiting Englishmen who held themselves complacently superior
to their generous American hosts.  It was as though he were silently
laughing at all he saw, at all which happened about him, as if he stood
in the midst of some huge joke which he alone was capable of
understanding: so Kitty weighed him.
He did not seem to care particularly for women; he never hovered about
them, offering little favors and courtesies; rather, he let them come
to him.  Nor did he care for dancing.  But he was always ready to make
up a table at bridge; and a shrewd capable player he was, too.
The music in the ballroom stopped.
"Will you be so good, Miss Killigrew, as to tell me why you Americans
call a palace like this--a cottage?"  Lord Monckton's voice was
pleasing, with only a slight accent.
"I'm sure I do not know.  If it were mine, I'd call it a villa."
"Quite properly."
"Do you like Americans?"
"I have no preference for any people.  I prefer individuals.  I had
much rather talk to an enlightened Chinaman than to an unenlightened
white man."
"I am afraid you are what they call blasé."
"Perhaps I am not quite at ease yet.  I was buffeted about a deal in
the old days."
Lord Monckton dropped back into the wicker chair, in the deep shadow.
Kitty did not move.  She wondered what Thomas was doing.  (Thomas was
rubbing ointment on his raw knuckles.)
"I am very fond of the sea," remarked Lord Monckton.  "I have seen some
odd parts of it.  Every man has his Odyssey, his Aeneid."
Aeneid.  It seemed to Kitty that her body had turned that instant into
marble as cold as that under her palms.
The coal of the man's cigar glowed intermittently.  She could see
nothing else.
Aeneid--Enid.
CHAPTER XVI
Thomas slammed the ball with a force which carried it far over the wire
backstop.
"You must not drive them so hard, Mr. Webb; at least, not up.  Drive
them down.  Try it again."
Tennis looked so easy from the sidelines that Thomas believed all he
had to do was to hit the ball whenever he saw it within reach; but
after a few experiments he accepted the fact that every game required a
certain talent, quite as distinct as that needed to sell green neckties
(old stock) when the prevailing fashion was polka-dot blue.  How he
loathed Thomas Webb.  How he loathed the impulse which had catapulted
him into this mad whirligig!  Why had not fate left him in peace; if
not satisfied with his lot, at least resigned?  And now must come this
confrontation, the inevitable!  No poor rat in a trap could have felt
more harassed.  Mentally, he went round and round in circles, but he
could find no exit.  There is no file to saw the bars of circumstance.
That the lithe young figure on the other side of the net, here, there,
backward and forward, alert, accurate, bubbling with energy . . .
Once, a mad rollicking impulse seized and urged him to vault the net
and take her in his arms and hold her still for a moment.  But he knew.
She was using him as an athlete uses a trainer before a real contest.
There was something more behind his stroke than mere awkwardness.  It
was downright savagery.  Generally when a man is in anger or despair he
longs to smash things; and these inoffensive tennis-balls were to
Thomas a gift of the gods.  Each time one sailed away over the
backstop, it was like the pop of a safety-valve; it averted an
explosion.
"That will be enough!" cried Kitty, as the last of a dozen balls sailed
toward the distant stables.
The tennis-courts were sunken and round them ran a parapet of lawn,
crisp and green, with marble benches opposite the posts, generally used
as judges' stands.  Upon one of these Kitty sat down and began to fan
herself.  Thomas walked over and sat down beside her.  The slight
gesture of her hand had been a command.
It was early morning, before breakfast; still and warm and breathless,
a forerunner of a long hot summer day.  A few hundred yards to the
south lay the sea, shimmering as it sprawled lazily upon the tawny
sands.
The propinquity of a pretty girl and a lonely young man has founded
more than one story.
"You'll be enjoying the game, once you learn it."
"Do you think I ever will?" asked Thomas.  He bent forward and began
tapping the clay with his racket.  How to run away!
Kitty, as she looked down at his head, knew that there were a dozen
absurd wishes in her heart, none of which could possibly ever become
facts.  He was so different from the self-assertive young men she knew,
with their silly flirtations, their inane small-talk, their capacity
for Scotch whisky and long hours.  For days she had studied him as
through microscopic lenses; his guilelessness was real.  It just simply
could not be; her ears had deceived her that memorable foggy night in
London.  And yet, always in the dark his voice was that of one of the
two men who had talked near her cab.  Who was he?  Not a single corner
of the veil had he yet lifted, and here it was, the middle of August;
and except for the week at Bar Harbor she had been with him day by day,
laid she knew not how many traps, over which he had stepped serenely,
warily or unconsciously she could not tell which.  It made her heart
ache; for, manly and simple as he appeared, honest as he seemed, he was
either a rogue or the dupe of one, which was almost as bad.  But to-day
she was determined to learn which he was.
"What have you done with the romance?"
"I have put it away in the bottom of my trunk.  The seventh rejection
convinces me that I am not a story-teller."
He had a desperate longing to tell her all, then and there.  It was too
late.  He would be arrested as a smuggler, turned out of the house as
an impostor.
"Don't give up so easily.  There are still ninety-three other editors
waiting to read it."
"I have my doubts.  Still, it was a pleasant pastime."  He sat back and
stared at the sea.  He must go this day; he must invent some way of
