His face looked very grim. "That is bad, bad. By the way, why didn't you
run to Balfame? That would seem the natural thing--"
"I was suddenly horribly afraid. I think I knew he was dead and I didn't
want to go near that. I ran like a dog back to its kennel."
"It was a feminine enough thing to do." For the first time he smiled,
and his voice, which had insensibly grown inquisitorial, softened once
more. "It was a dreadful position to find oneself in and no mistake.
Your instinct was right. If you had been found bending over him--still,
as you had no weapon--"
"I think on the whole it would have been better to have gone to him. Of
course that is what I should have done if I had loved him. As it was, I
ran as far from him as I could get--"
"Well, don't let us waste time discussing the ought to have beens.
Unless some one can prove that you were out that night, the whole
incident must be suppressed. If you are arrested on any trumped up
charge--and the district attorney is keener than the reporters--you must
stick to your story. By the way, why didn't you tell the reporters that
Frieda was in the house about the time the shot was fired?"
"I had forgotten. The house has been full of people; the neighbourhood
has lived here; I have noticed her no more than if she were as wooden as
she looks."
"Do you think she did it?"
"I wish I could. But she would not have had time to get into the house
before I did. And the footsteps were running toward the lane at the back
of the grounds."
"She is one of the swiftest dancers down in that hall where she goes
with her crowd every Saturday night. I have been doing a little
sleuthing on my own account, but I can't connect her up with Balfame."
"He wouldn't have looked at her."
"You never can tell. A man will often look quite hard at whatever
happens to be handy. But she doesn't appear to have any sweetheart,
although she's been in the country for four years. She is intimate in
the home of Old Dutch and goes about with young Conrad, but he is
engaged to some one else. All the boys like to dance with her. She left
the hall suddenly and ran home--ostensibly wild with a toothache. If she
hid in the grove to kill Balfame she could have got into the house
before you did. What was she doing on the stair, anyway?"
"I didn't ask her."
"She may have been too out of breath to answer you. Or too wary. Those
other footsteps--they may have been those of an accomplice; the man who
fired the other pistol."
"But I would have seen her running ahead of me."
"Not necessarily. It was very dark. Your mind was stunned. You may have
hesitated longer than you know before making for the house. One is
liable to powerful inhibitions in great crises. Where is the girl? I
think I'll have her in."
He walked the floor nervously while Mrs. Balfame went out to the
kitchen. Frieda was sitting by the stove knitting. Commanded to come to
the parlour, her little eyes almost closed, but she followed Mrs.
Balfame and confronted Rush, who stood in the middle of the room looking
tall and formidable.
"I am Mrs. Balfame's lawyer," he said without preamble. "She sent for me
because you tried to blackmail her. What were you doing on the stairs
when you heard Mrs. Balfame in the kitchen? You left the dance hall
sometime before eight, and that could not have been more than five
minutes past."
Frieda pressed her big lips together in a hard line.
"Oh, you won't speak. Well, if you don't explain to me, you will to the
Grand Jury to-morrow. Or I shall get out a warrant to-night for your
arrest as the murderer of David Balfame."
"Gott!" The girl's face was almost purple. She raised her knitting
needles with a threatening gesture that was almost dramatic. "I did not
do it. She has done it."
"What were you doing on the stairs?"
"I would heat water for my tooth."
"Cold water is the thing for an ulcerated tooth."
"I never have the toothache like that already. I am in my room many
minutes before I think I go down. Then, when I am on the stairs I hear
Mrs. Balfame come in."
"She has explained what you heard."
"No, she have not. I think so when we have talked this evening, but not
now. She is--was, I mean, all out of her breath."
"I was terrified." Mrs. Balfame retorted so promptly that Rush flashed
her a glance of admiration. Here was a woman who could take care of
herself on the witness stand. "First I thought I heard some one trying
to get into the door, and then some one sneaking up the stairs."
"Oh--yes." Frieda's tones expressed no conviction. "The educated lady
can think very quick. But I say that she have come in by the door, the
kitchen door. Always I take the key to the hall door. She know that, and
as she not know that I am in, she go out by the kitchen door. Always in
the daytime when she goes to the yard she go by the hall door."
"What a pity you did not slam the door when you came in. It would have
been quite natural as you were in such agony." Rush spoke sarcastically,
but he was deeply perturbed. It was impossible to tell whether the girl
was telling the truth or a carefully rehearsed story.
"Of course you know that if you tell that story to the police you will
get yourself into serious trouble."
"I get her into trouble."
"Mrs. Balfame is above suspicion. It is not my business to warn you, or
to defeat the ends of the law, of which apparently you know nothing--"
"I know someting. Last night I have tell Herr Kraus; and he say that
since I have told the coroner I know notings, much better I touch the
lady for five hundert and go home."
"O-h-h! That is the advice Old Dutch gave you! Splendid! I think the
best thing I can do is to have you arrested bright and early to-morrow
morning. Mrs. Balfame is cleared already. You may go."
She stared at him for a moment out of eyes that spat fire like two
little guns in the top of a fort; then she swung herself about and
retreated to the kitchen.
"That ought to make her disappear to-night. Her friends will hide her.
The mere fact of her disappearance will convince the police, as well as
the reporters, that she is guilty. You are all right." He spoke
boyishly, and his face, no longer rigid, was full of light.
"But if she is innocent?"
"No harm done. She'll be smuggled out of the country and suspicion
permanently diverted from you. That is all I care about." He caught her
hands impulsively in his. "I am glad, so glad! Oh!--It is too soon now,
but wait--" He was out of the house before she grasped the fact that he
had arrested himself on the brim of another declaration.
Mrs. Balfame went up to bed, serene once more in the belief that her
future was her own, unclouded, full of attractive possibilities for a
woman of her position and intellectual attainments.
She made up her mind to take a really deep course of reading, so that
the most spiteful should not call her superficial; moreover, she had
been conscious more than once of certain mental dissatisfactions, of
uneasy vacancies in a mind sufficiently awake to begin to realise the
cheapness of its furnishings. Perhaps she would take a course in history
at Columbia, another in psychology.
As she put herself into a sturdy cotton night-gown and then brushed back
her hair from a rather large forehead before braiding it severely for
the night, she realised dimly that that way happiness might lie, that
the pleasures of the intellectual life might be very great indeed. She
wished regretfully that she could have been brilliantly educated in her
youth. In that case she would not have married a man who would incite
any spirited woman to seek the summary release, but would be to-day the
wife of a judge, perhaps--some fine fellow who had showed the early
promise that Dwight Rush must have done. If she could attract one man
like that, at the age of forty-two, she could have had a dozen in her
train when young if she had had the sense to appreciate them.
But she was philosophical, and it was not her way to quarrel very deeply
with herself or with life. Her long braids were as evenly plaited as
ever.
She sank into sleep, thinking of the disagreeable necessity of making
the kitchen fire in the morning and cooking her own breakfast. Frieda of
course would be gone.
CHAPTER XVII
The next morning, when Mrs. Balfame, running lightly down the back
stairs, entered the kitchen half an hour earlier than her usual
appearance in the dining-room, the front of her housefrock covered with
a large apron and her sleeves pinned to the elbow, she beheld Frieda
slicing potatoes.
"Why!" The exclamation was impetuous, but her quick mind adapted itself.
"I woke up early and thought I would come down and help," she continued
evenly. "You have had so much to do of late."
Frieda was regarding her with intense suspicion. "Never you have done
that before," she growled. "You will see if I have the dishes by the
dinner washed."
"Nonsense. And everything is so different these days. I am hungry, too.
I thought it would be nice to hurry breakfast."
"Breakfast always is by eight. You have told me that when I come. I get
up by half past six. First I air the house, and sweep the hall. Then I
make the fire and put the water to boil. Then I peel the potatoes. Then
I make the biscuit. Then I boil the eggs. Then I make the coffee--"
"I know. You are marvellously systematic. But I thought you might make
the coffee at once."
"Always the coffee come last." Frieda resumed her task.
"But I don't eat potatoes for breakfast."
"I eat the potatoes. When they fry in the pan, then I put the biscuit in
the oven. Then I boil the eggs and then I make the coffee. Breakfast is
by eight o'clock."
Mrs. Balfame, with a good-humoured laugh, turned to leave the kitchen.
But her mind, alert with apprehension, cast up a memory, vague but far
from soothing. "By the way, I seem to remember that I woke up suddenly
in the night and heard voices down here. Did you have visitors?"
Frieda flushed the deep and angry red of her infrequent moments of
embarrassment. "I have not visitors in the night." She turned on the
water tap, which made noise enough to discourage further attempts at
conversation; and Mrs. Balfame, to distract her mind, dusted the
parlour. She dared not go out into the yard and walk off her
restlessness, for there were now two sentinels preserving what they
believed to be a casual attitude before her gate. She would have given
much to know whether those men were watching her movements or those of
her servant.
Immediately after breakfast, the systematic Frieda was persuaded to go
to the railway station and buy the New York papers when the train came
in. Frieda might be a finished product of the greatest machine shop the
world has ever known, but she was young and she liked the bustle of life
at the station, and the long walk down Main Street, so different from
the aristocratic repose of Elsinore Avenue. Mrs. Balfame, watching
behind the curtain, saw that one of the sentinels followed her. The
other continued to lean against the lamp-post whittling a stick. Both
she and Frieda were watched!
But the disquiet induced by the not unnatural surveillance of premises
identified with a recent crime was soon forgotten in the superior powers
of the New York press to excite both disquiet and indignation.
She had missed a photograph of herself while dusting the parlour and had
forgiven the loyal thief as it was a remarkably pretty picture and
portrayed a woman sweet, fashionable, and lofty. To her horror the
picture which graced the first page of the great dailies was that of a
hard defiant female, quite certain, without a line of letter press, to
prejudice a public anxious to believe the worst.
Tears of outraged vanity blurred her vision for a few moments before the
full menace of that silent witness took possession of her. She knew that
most people deteriorated under the mysterious but always fatal encounter
of their photographs with the "staff artist," but she felt all the
sensations of the outraged novice.
A moment after she had dashed her tears away she turned pale; and when
she finished reading the interviews the beautiful whiteness of her skin
was disfigured by a greenish pallor.
The interviews were written with a devilish cunning that protected the
newspapers from danger of libel suit but subtly gave the public to
understand that its appetite for a towering figure in the Balfame case
was about to be gratified.
There was no doubt that two shots had been fired from the grove
simultaneously, and from revolvers of different calibre (picture of tree
and gate).
Was one of them--the smaller--fired by a woman? And if so, by what
woman?
Not one of the females whose names had been linked at one time or
another with the versatile Mr. Balfame but had proved her alibi, and so
far as was known--although of course some one as yet unsuspected may
have climbed the back fence and hid in the grove--the only two women on
the premises were the widow and her extraordinarily plain servant.
Balfame was shot with a .41 revolver. In one of the newspapers it was
casually and not too politely remarked that Mrs. Balfame had larger
hands and feet than one would expect from her general elegance of figure
and aristocratic features, and in the same rambling sentence (this was
written by the deeply calculating Mr. Broderick) the public was informed
that certain footprints might have been those of a large woman or of a
medium sized man. In the next paragraph but one Mrs. Balfame's stately
height was again commented upon, but as the public had already been
informed that she was an expert at target practice, reiteration of this
fact was astutely avoided.
A great deal was said here and there of her composure, her large
studiously expressionless grey eyes, her nimble mind that so often
routed her inquisitors, but was allied to a temperament of ice and a
manifest power of cool and deliberate calculation.
The dullest reader was quickened into the belief that he was the real
detective and that his unerring sense had carried him straight to the
woman who had hated the murdered man and had quarrelled with him in
public a few hours before his death.
The episode of Mrs. Balfame's offer to make her husband a glass of
doctored lemonade and the disappearance of both beverage and glass was
not mentioned; presumably these bright young men did not believe in
digressions or in rousing a curiosity they might not be able to appease.
The interview concluded with a maddening hint at immediate developments.
Mrs. Balfame let the papers drop to the floor one by one; when she had
finished the last she drew her breath painfully for several moments. The
room turned black, and it was cut by rows of bared and menacing teeth,
infinitely multiplied.
But she was not the woman to give way to fear for long, or even to
bewilderment. There could be no real danger, and all that should concern
her was the outrageous, the intolerably vulgar publicity. A woman whose
good taste was both natural and cultivated, she felt this ruthless
tossing of her sacred person into the public maw much as the more
refined octoroons may have felt when they stood on the auction block in
the good old days down South. She shuddered and gritted her teeth; she
wished that she were a hysterical woman that she might find relief in
shrieking at the top of her voice and smashing the furniture.
Why, oh why, could not David Balfame have been permitted by the fate
which had decreed his end on that particular night to enter the house
and drink the lemonade; to die decently, painlessly, bloodlessly (she
shrank aside when compelled to pass those blood stains on the brick
path), as any man might die when his overtaxed heart simply stopped? She
would have run down the moment she heard the fall, she would have
managed to get the glass out of the way if Frieda had condescended to
visit the scene, which was quite unlikely. She would have run over to
Doctor Lequer, who lived next door to the Gifnings, and he would have
sent for the coroner. Both inevitably would have pronounced the death
due to heart failure. It was fate that had bungled, not she.
She mused, however, that she should have had a duplicate glass of
lemonade to leave half consumed on the table, as it would be recalled
that he had expected to imbibe a soothing draught immediately upon his
return; and adjacent liquids invariably induce suspicion in cases of
sudden death. But that did not matter now.
She set her wits to work upon the identity of her companion in the
grove. Was it Frieda? Or an accomplice of the girl, who was already in
the house or on the alert to direct him out by the rear pathway? But why
Frieda? She knew the raging hate that had filled her husband since the
declaration of war, and she knew that his rivals in politics hated him
with increasing virulency; as they were beginning to hate everybody that
presumed to question the right and might of Germany.
But she was a woman just and sensible. Nor for a moment could she
visualise Old Dutch or any of his tribe shooting David Balfame because
he cursed the Kaiser and sang Tipperary. The supposition was too shallow
to be entertained.
The person in the grove had been either a bitter political rival too
intimate with the local police to be in danger of arrest, or some woman
who for a time may have believed herself to be his wife in the larger
village of New York.
She could have sworn that that stealthy figure so close to her was a
man, but women's skirts were very narrow and silent these days, and
after all she herself was as tall as the average man.
Before noon the house was filled with sympathising and indignant
friends. Cummack came up town to assure her that it was a shame; and he
would ask Rush if those New York papers couldn't be had up for libel.
He'd take the eleven-thirty for Dobton and consult with him.
The ladies were knitting, no one more impersonally than Mrs. Balfame,
although she was wondering if these kind friends expected to stay to
lunch, when an automobile drove honking up to the door, and Mrs. Battle
teetered over to the window.
"For the land's sake," she exclaimed. "If it isn't the deputy sheriff
from Dobton. Now, what do you suppose?"
Mrs. Balfame stood up suddenly, and the other women sat with their
needles suspended as if suddenly overcome by a noxious gas, with the
exception of Mrs. Cummack, who ran over to her sister-in-law and put her
plump arm about that easily compassed waist. Mrs. Balfame drew away
haughtily.
"I am not frightened," she said in her sweet cool voice. "I am prepared
for anything after those newspapers--that is all."
The bell pealed, and Mrs. Gifning, too curious to wait upon the
hand-maiden, ran out and opened the front door. She returned a moment
later with her little blue eyes snapping with excitement.
"What do you think?" she gasped. "It is Frieda they want. She is being
subpoenaed to Dobton to testify before the Grand Jury. The deputy
sheriff is going to take her with him."
Mrs. Balfame returned to her chair with such composure that no one
suspected the sudden weakening of her knees. Instantly she realised the
meaning of the voices she had heard in the night. Frieda had been
"interviewed," either by the press or the police, and induced, probably
bribed, to talk. No wonder she had not run away.
But she too resumed her knitting.
CHAPTER XVIII
Young Bruce had had no appetite for his part in the Balfame drama. He
had presented himself at the back door, however, at eight o'clock on the
night of the interview with the heroine, assuming that Frieda would be
moving at her usual snail's pace from the day of work toward the evening
of leisure. She slammed the door in his face.
When he persisted, thrusting his cherubic countenance through the
window, she threatened him with the hose. Neither failure daunted him,
and he was convinced that she knew more of the case than she was willing
to admit; but it was obvious that he was not the man to appeal to the
fragment of heart she had brought from East Prussia. The mere fact that
he looked rather German and yet was straight American--employed,
moreover, by a newspaper that made no secret of its hostility to her
country--satisfied him that he would not be permitted to approach her
closely enough to attempt any form of persuasion. He drew the long
breath of deliverance as he reached this conclusion; the bare idea that
he might have to bestow a kiss upon Frieda in the heroic pursuit of duty
had induced a sensation of nausea. He was an extremely fastidious young
man. But even as he accepted defeat with mingled relief and chagrin, the
brilliant alternative occurred to him.
He had ascertained that Frieda was intimate in the home of Conrad
Kraus, otherwise "Old Dutch," of Dobton, the County seat. Conrad, Jr.,
treated her as a brother should, and it was his habit to escort her home
from the popular dance-hall of Elsinore on Saturday nights. Bruce had no
difficulty in learning that the young German-American had been dancing
with his favourite partner when her dead nerve seemed to threaten
explosion and had fraternally run home with her. The energetic reporter
did not wait upon the next trolley for Dobton, but hired an automobile
and descended in front of Old Dutch's saloon fifteen minutes later.
Young Kraus was busy; and Bruce, after ordering beer and cheese and
taking it to an occupied table, drew the information from a neighbour
that Conrad, Jr., would be on duty behind the bar until midnight. It was
the habit of Papa Kraus to retire promptly on the stroke of nine and
take his entire family, save Conrad, with him. The eldest of the united
family continued to assuage the thirst of the neighbourhood until twelve
o'clock, when he shut up the front of the house and went to bed in the
rear as quickly as possible; he must rise betimes and clerk in the
leading grocery-store of the town. He was only twenty-two, but thrifty
and hard-working and anxious to marry.
Bruce caught the next train for New York, had a brief talk with his city
editor, and returned to Dobton a few moments before the closing hour of
the saloon. He hung about the bar until the opportunity came to speak to
Conrad unheard.
"I want a word with you as soon as you have shut up," he said without
preamble.
The young German scowled at the reporter. Although a native son of
Dobton, he resented the attitude of the American press as deeply as his
irascible old father, and he still more deeply resented the suspicion
that had hovered for a moment over the house of Kraus.
"Don't get mad till you hear what I've got to say," whispered Bruce.
"There may be a cool five hundred in it for you."
Conrad glanced at the clock. It was five minutes to twelve. He stood as
immobile as his duties would permit until the stroke of midnight, when
he turned out the last reluctant patron, locked the door and followed
the reporter down the still-illuminated street to a dark avenue in the
residence quarter. Then the two fell into step.
"Now, what is it?" growled Conrad, who did not like to have his habits
disturbed. "I get up--"
"That's all right. I won't keep you fifteen minutes. I want you to tell
me all you know about the night of the Balfame murder."
He had taken the young German's arm and felt it stiffen. "I know
nothing," was the reply.
"Oh, yes, you do. You took Frieda home and got there some little time
before the shooting. You went in the side entrance to the back yard, but
you could see the grove all right."
"It was a black-dark night. I could see nothing in the grove."
"Ah! You saw something else! You have been afraid to speak out, as there
had been talk of your father having employed gun-men--"
"Such lies!" shrieked young Kraus.
"Of course! I know that. So does the press. That was a wild dream of
the police. But all the same you thought it wouldn't be a bad idea to
keep clear of the whole business. That is true. Don't attempt to deny
it. You saw something that would put the law on the right track. Now,
what was it? There are five hundred dollars waiting for you if you will
tell the truth. I don't want anything but the truth, mind you. I don't
represent a paper that pays for lies, so your honour is quite safe. So
also are you."
Conrad ruminated for a few moments. He was literal and honest and wanted
to be quite positive that he was not asked to do something which would
make him feel uncomfortable while investing those desirable five hundred
dollars in West Elsinore town lots, and could reassure himself that the
truth was always right whether commercially valuable or not. He balanced
the pro's and con's so long that Bruce was about to break out
impatiently just as he made up his mind.
"Yes, I saw something. But I wished to say nothing. They might say that
I was in it, or that I lied to protect Frieda--"
"That's all right. There was no possible connection between her and
Balfame--"
Conrad went on exactly as if the reporter had not interrupted. "I had
seen Frieda through the back door. She was crying with the toothache,
and I heard her run upstairs. I thought I would wait a few moments. The
drops she said she had might not cure her, and she might want me to go
to a dentist's house with her. She had gone in the back-hall door.
Suddenly I saw the kitchen door open, and as I was starting forward, I
saw that it was not Frieda who came out. It was Mrs. Balfame. She closed
the door behind her, and then crept past me to the back of the kitchen
yard. I watched her and saw her turn suddenly and walk toward the grove.
She did not make a particle of noise--"
"How do you know it was not Frieda?"
"Frieda is five-feet-three, and this was a tall woman, taller than I,
and I am five-eight. I have seen Mrs. Balfame many times, and though I
couldn't see her face,--she had a dark veil or scarf round it,--I knew
her height and walk. Of course I watched to see what she was up to. A
few moments later I heard Balfame turn in from Dawbarn Street, singing,
like the fool he was, 'Tipperary,' and then I heard a shot. I guessed
that Balfame had got what was coming to him, and I didn't wait to see. I
tiptoed for a minute or two and then ran through the next four places at
the back, and then out toward Balfame Street, for the trolley. But
Frieda heard Mrs. Balfame when she came in. She was all out of breath,
and, when she heard a sound on the stairs, called out before she
thought, I guess, and asked Frieda if she had heard anything. But Frieda
is very cautious. She had heard the shot, but she froze stiff against
the wall when she heard Mrs. Balfame's voice, and said nothing. We told
her afterwards that she had better keep quiet for the present."
"And you think Mrs. Balfame did it?"
"Who else? I shall not be so sorry if she goes to the chair, for a woman
should always be punished the limit for killing a man, even such a man
as Balfame."
"No fear of that, but we'll have a dandy case. You tell that story to
the Grand Jury to-morrow, and you get your five hundred before night.
Now you must come and get me a word with Frieda. She won't look at me,
and of course she is in bed anyhow. But I must tell her there are a
couple of hundred in this for her if she comes through--"
"But she'll be arrested for perjury. She testified at the coroner's
inquest that she knew nothing."
"An abscessed tooth will explain her reticence on any other subject."
"Perhaps I should tell you that she came to see us to-night--last night
it is now, not?--and told my papa that Lawyer Rush had frightened her,
told her that she might be accused of the killing, that she had better
get out. But Papa advised her to go home and fear nothing, where there
was nothing to fear. He knew that if she ran away, he would be suspected
again, the girl being intimate in the family; and of course the police
would be hot on her trail at once. So, like the good sensible girl she
is, she took the advice and went home."
"All right. Come along. I'm not on the morning paper, but I promised the
story to the boys if I could get it in time."
He hired another automobile, and they left it at the corner of Dawbarn
and Orchard Streets, entering the Balfame place by the tradesmen's gate
on the left, and creeping to the rear of the house. The lane behind the
four acres of the little estate was full of ruts and too far away from
the house for adventuring on a dark night. They had been halted by the
detective on watch, but when their errand was hastily explained, he
joined forces with them and even climbed a lean-to in the endeavour to
rouse Miss Appel from her young and virtuous slumbers. Their combined
efforts covered three hours; and that explains why the tremendous
news-story appeared in the early edition of the afternoon papers instead
of whetting several million morning appetites.
The interview with Frieda, who became very wide awake when the unseemly
intrusion was elucidated by the trustworthy Conrad, and bargained for
five hundred dollars, explains why Mrs. Balfame spent Thursday night in
the County Jail behind Dobton Courthouse.
CHAPTER XIX
When the Dobton sheriff and his deputies came to arrest Mrs. Balfame,
the wife of their old comrade in arms, all they were able to tell her
was that the District Attorney had applied for the warrant immediately
after the testimony before the Grand Jury of Frieda Appel and of the
Krauses, father and son. What that testimony had been they could not
have told her if they would, but that it had been strong and
corroborative enough to insure her indictment by the Grand Jury was as
manifest as it was ominous.
They arrived just as Mrs. Balfame was about to leave the house to lunch
with Mrs. Cummack; Frieda had left long before it was time to prepare
the midday meal. Mr. Cramb, the sheriff, shut the door behind him and in
the faces of the indignant women reporters, who, less ruthless but
equally loyal to their journals, wanted a "human interest" story for the
stimulated public. Mrs. Balfame and her friends retreated before the
posse into the parlour. Mrs. Battle wept loudly; Alys Crumley, who had
come in with her mother a few moments since, fell suddenly on a chair in
the corner and pressed her hands against her mouth, her horrified eyes
staring at Mrs. Balfame. The other women shed tears as the equally
doleful sheriff explained his errand and read the warrant. Mrs. Balfame
alone was calm. She exerted herself supremely and sent so peremptory a
message along her quaking nerves that it benumbed them for the moment.
She had only a faint sense of drama, but a very keen one of her own
peculiar position in her little world, and she knew that in this grisly
crisis of her destiny she was expected to behave as a brave and
dignified woman should--a woman of whom her friends could continue to
exult as head and shoulders above the common mass. She rose to the
occasion.
"Don't you worry--just!" said Mr. Cramb, patting her shoulder, although
he never had had the temerity to offer her his hand before, and had
often "pitied Dave." "They lied, them Duytchers, for some reason or
other, but they can't really have nothin' on you, and we'll find out
what they're up to, double quick."
"I do not worry," said Mrs. Balfame coldly, "--although quite naturally
I object to the humiliation of arrest, and of spending even a night in
jail. Exactly what is the charge against me?"
The sheriff crumpled his features and cleared his throat. "Well, it's
murder, I guess. It's an ugly word, but words don't mean nothin' when
there's nothin' in them."
"In the first degree?" shrieked Mrs. Gifning.
Cramb nodded.
"And it don't admit of bail?" Mrs. Frew's eyes rolled wildly.
"Nothin' doin'."
Mrs. Balfame rose hurriedly. There was a horrid possibility of contagion
in this room surcharged with emotion. She kissed each of her friends in
turn. "It will be all right, of course," she reminded them gently. "Only
men could be taken in by such a plot, and of course there are a lot of
Germans on the Grand Jury--there are so many in this county. I shall
have an excellent lawyer, Dave's friend, Mr. Rush. And I am sure that I
shall be quite comfortable in the County Jail--it is so nice and new."
But she shuddered at the vision, in spite of her fine self-control.
"You'll be treated like a queen," interposed the sheriff hastily. He was
proud of her, and immensely relieved that he was not to escort an
hysterical prisoner five miles to the County Seat. "You'll have the
Warden's own suite, and I guess you'll be able to see your friends right
along. Guess we'd better be gettin' on."
As Mrs. Balfame was leaving the room, her eyes met the horrified and
puzzled gaze of Alys Crumley, and one of those obscure instincts that
dart out of the subconscious mind like memories of old experiences
released under high mental pressure, made her put out her hand
impulsively and draw the girl to her.
"I can always be sure of your trust," she whispered. "Won't you come up
and help me pack?"
Alys followed unresisting: the blow had been so sudden; she had believed
so little in the power of the law to touch a woman like Mrs. Balfame,
and even less that she committed the crime; for the moment she forgot
her jealous hostility, remembered only that the best friend of her
mother and of her own childhood was in dire straits.
Mrs. Cummack had run up ahead and was carrying two suitcases from the
large closet to the bed as they entered. Her face was burning and
tear-stained, but she was one of those highly efficient women of the
home that rise automatically to every emergency and act while others
consider. "Glad you've come too," she said to Alys. "Open those drawers
in the bureau, and I'll pick out what's needed. Of course the ridiculous
charge will be dismissed in a day or two--but still! Well, if they're
all idiots down there at Dobton, we can come over here and pack a trunk
later. To take it now would be nonsense, and Sam'll move heaven and
earth to get them to accept bail. You just put on your best black, Enid,
and wear your veil so they can't snapshot you."
While she was gasping on, Mrs. Balfame, whose brain had never worked
more clearly, went into the bathroom and emptied the contents of an
innocent looking medicine bottle into the drain of the wash-stand. She
feared young Broderick more than she feared the district attorney, who,
after all, had been her husband's friend--had, in fact, eaten all of his
political crumbs out of that lavish but discriminating hand. She
recalled that she had always been gracious to him (at her husband's
request, for she regarded him as a mere worm) when he had dined at her
table, and felt sure that he would favour her secretly, whatever his
obvious duty. Moreover, he was of those that spat at the very mention of
the powerful Kraus, and would gladly, especially since the outbreak of
the war, have run him out of the community.
Mrs. Balfame, being a brilliant exponent of that type which enjoys the
unwavering admiration and loyalty of its own sex, had a corresponding
belief in her friends, and rarely if ever had used the word cat
denotatively. She called out the best in women as they of a certainty
called out the best in her. Therefore, it did not occur to her either to
close the bathroom door or to glance behind her. Alys Crumley, standing
before the bureau and happening to look into the mirror, saw her empty
and rinse the bottle. The suspicions of Broderick regarding the glass of
lemonade flashed into the young artist's mind; and from that moment she
believed in the guilt of Mrs. Balfame.
Although her hands were shaking Alys lifted from the lavender-scented
drawers the severely chaste underwear of the leader of Elsinore society,
and as soon as the suitcases were packed, she made haste to adjust Mrs.
Balfame's veil and pin it so firmly that no more kisses could be
exchanged. Of her ultimate purpose Alys had not the ghost of an idea,
but kiss a woman whom she believed to be guilty of murder and whom she
might possibly be driven to betray, she would not. Suddenly grown as
secretive as if she had a crime of her own to conceal, she even walked
out to the car with Mrs. Balfame and helped to drive away the crowding
newspaper women, several of whom she recognised. They in turn bore her
off, determined to get some sort of a story for the issues of the
morrow.
CHAPTER XX
Mrs. Balfame was whirled to Dobton in ten minutes--herself, she fancied,
the very centre of a whirlwind. The automobile was pursued by three cars
containing members of the press, which shot past just before they
reached Dobton Courthouse, that the occupants might leap out and fix
their cameras. Other men and women of the press stood before the locked
gate of the jail yard, several holding cameras. But once more the
reading public was forced to be content with an appetising news-story
illustrated by a tall black mummy.
Mrs. Balfame walked past them holding her clenched hands under her veil,
but to all appearance composed and indifferent. The sob-sisters were
enthusiastic, and the men admired and disliked her more than ever. Your
true woman always weeps when in trouble, just as she blushes and
trembles when a man selects her to be his comforter through life.
The Warden and his wife, who but a few weeks since had moved into their
new quarters, had moved out again without a murmur and with an
unaccustomed thrill. What a blessed prospect after screaming drunks,
drug-fiends and tame commercial sinners!
The doors clanged shut; Mrs. Balfame mounted the stairs hastily, and was
still composed enough to exclaim with pleasure and to thank the Warden's
wife, Mrs. Larks, when she saw that flowers were on the table and even
on the window-sills.
"I guess you'll stand it all right," said Mrs. Larks proudly. "Just make
yourself at home and I'll have your lunch up in a jiffy."
Mrs. Cummack and Mrs. Gifning had come in the car with Mrs. Balfame, and
Cummack and several other men of standing arrived almost immediately to
assure her, with pale disturbed faces, that they were doing their best
to get her out on bail. While she was trying to eat her lunch, the
telephone bell rang, and her set face became more animated as she
recognised Rush's strong confident voice. He had read the news in the
early edition of the afternoon papers, in New York, telephoned to Dobton
and found that his immediate fear was realised and that she was in the
County Jail. He commanded her to keep up her spirits and promised to be
with her at four o'clock.
Then she begged her friends to go and let her rest and sleep if
possible; they knew just how serious that consultation with her lawyer
must be. When she was alone, however, she picked up the telephone, which
stood on a side table, and called up the office of Dr. Anna Steuer. Ever
since her arrest she had been dully conscious of her need of this oldest
and truest of her friends. It came to her with something of a shock as
she sat waiting for Central to connect, that she had leaned upon this
strong and unpretentious woman far more than her calm self-satisfied
mind had ever admitted.
Dr. Anna's assistant answered the call, and when she heard Mrs.
Balfame's voice broke down and wept loudly.
"Oh, do be quiet," said Mrs. Balfame impatiently. "I am in no danger
whatever. Connect me with the Doctor."
"Oh, it ain't only that. Poor--poor Doctor! She's been all in for days,
and this morning she just collapsed, and I sent for Dr. Lequeur, and he
pronounced it typhoid and sent for the ambulance and had her taken out
to Brabant Hospital. The last thing she said--whispered--was to be sure
not to bother you, that you would hear it soon enough--"
Mrs. Balfame hung up the receiver, which had almost fallen from her
shaking hand. She turned cold with terror. Anna ill! And when she most
wanted her! A little window in her brain opened reluctantly, and
superstition crept in. Beyond that open window she seemed to hear the
surge of a furious and irresistible tide. Had it been waiting all these
years to overleap the barriers about her well ordered life and sweep her
into chaos? She frowned and put her thoughts more colloquially. Had her
luck changed? Was Fate against her? When she thought of Dwight Rush, it
was only to shrink again. If anything happened to him--and why not? Men
were killed every day by automobiles, and he had an absentminded way of
walking--
She sprang to her feet and paced up and down the two rooms of the suite,
determined upon composure, and angry with herself. She recovered her
mental balance (so rarely disturbed by imaginative flights), but her
spirits were at zero; and she was sitting with her elbows on her knees,
her hands pressed to her face when Rush entered promptly at four
o'clock. He was startled at the face she lifted. It looked older but
indefinably more attractive. Her inviolable serenity had irritated even
him at times, although she was his innocent ideal of a great lady.
The Warden, who had unlocked the door, left them alone, and Rush sat
down and took both her hands in his warm reassuring grasp.
"You are not to be the least bit frightened," he said. "The great thing
for you to remember is that your husband's political crowd rules, and
simply laughs at your arrest. They are more positive than ever that some
political enemy did it. Balfame's temper was growing shorter and
shorter, and he had many enemies, even in his own party. But the crowd
will pull every wire to get you off, and they can pull wires, all
right--"
"But on what evidence am I arrested? What did those abominable people
say to the Grand Jury? Am I never to know?"
"Well, rather. It's all in the afternoon papers, for one of the
reporters got the evidence before the Grand Jury did."
He had taken off his overcoat, and he crossed the room and took from a
pocket a copy of The Evening News. She glanced over it with her lips
drawn back from her teeth. It contained not only the story the
enterprising Mr. Bruce had managed to obtain from Frieda and Conrad Jr.,
but a corroboration of the maid's assertion that, warned by the family
friend and lawyer, Mr. Dwight Rush, to disappear, she had gone to Papa
Kraus for advice. Not a word, however, of blackmail.
"So the public believes already that I am a murderess! No doubt I should
be convinced as readily myself. It is all so adroit!" Mrs. Balfame
spoke quietly but with intense bitterness. "I suppose I must be
tried--more and still more publicity. No one will ever forget it. Do you
suppose it is true young Kraus saw me that night?"
"God knows!"
He got up again and moved nervously about the room. "I wish I could be
sure. That is the point to which I must give the deepest
consideration--whether you are to admit or not that you went out. The
Grand Jury and Gore believe it. Young Kraus has a very good name. Frieda
has always been well behaved. There are six Germans on the Grand Jury,
moreover. We must see that none get on the trial jury. Gore wants to
believe--"
"But he was a friend of Dave's."
"Exactly. He is making much of that point. Affects to be filled with
righteous wrath because you killed his dear old friend. Trust a district
attorney. All they care for is to win out, and he has his spurs to win,
in the bargain. I met him a few moments ago; he was about equally full
of gin fizzes and the 'indisputable fact' that you are the only person
in sight with a motive. Oh, don't! Don't!"
Mrs. Balfame had broken down. She flung her arms over the table and her
head upon them. More than once in her life she had shed tears both
diplomatic and spontaneous, but for the first time since she was a child
she sobbed heavily. She felt forlorn, deserted, in awful straits.
"Anna is ill," she articulated. "Anna! My one real friend--the only one
that has meant anything to me. Life has gone pretty well with me. Now
everything is changed. I know that terrible things are about to happen
to me."
"Not while I am alive. I heard of Dr. Anna's illness on my way to New
York. Lequeur was on the train. You--you must let me take her place. I
am devoted to you heart and soul. You surely know that."
"But you are not a woman. It's a woman friend I want now, a strong one
like Anna. Those other women--oh, yes, they're devoted to me--have been,
but they've suddenly ceased to count, somehow. Besides, they'll soon
believe me guilty. I hate them all. Only Anna would have understood--and
believed."
Rush had been administering awkward little pats to the soft masses of
her hair. Suddenly he realised that his faith in her complete innocence
was by no means as stable as it had been; she had confessed to him that
she had been in the grove that night stalking the intruder. How absurd
to believe that she had gone out unarmed. He had read the circumstantial
details of the reporter's interviews with Frieda and young Kraus. While
the writers were careful not to make the downright assertion that Mrs.
Balfame had fired the fatal shot, the public saw her in the act of
levelling one of the pistols--so mighty is the power of the trained and
ruthless pen.
As he stood looking down upon his unexpected surrender to emotional
excitement, he asked himself deliberately: What more natural, if she had
a pistol in her hand and that low-lived creature presented himself
abruptly and alone, than that it should go off of its own accord, so to
speak, whether hers had been the bullet to penetrate that loathsome
target or not? If so, what had she done with the pistol?
He sat down and laid his hand firmly on her arm.
"There is something I must tell you. It is something Frieda forgot to
tell the reporter, but she gave it to the Grand Jury. With the help of a
couple of extra gin fizzes, I extracted it from Gore. It is this: she
told the Grand Jury that several times when she did her weekly cleaning
upstairs she saw a pistol in the drawer of a table beside your bed.
Will--won't you tell me?"
He felt the arm in his clasp grow rigid, but Mrs. Balfame answered
without a trace of her recent agitation: "I told you before that I never
had a pistol. It would be like her to be spying about among my things,
but I wonder she would admit it."
"She is delighted with her new importance, and, I fancy, has been bribed
to tell all she knows."
"In that case she wouldn't mind telling more. And no doubt she will
think of other sensational items before the trial. She will have
awakened in the night after the crime and heard me drop the pistol
between the walls, or she will have seen me loading it on the afternoon
of the shooting."
"Yes, there is no knowing when those low-grade imaginations, once
started, will stop. Memory ceases to function in brains of that sort,
and its place is taken by a confused jumble of induced or auto
suggestions, which are carefully straightened out by the practised
lawyer in rehearsals. But I almost wish that you had taken a pistol out
that night and would tell me where to find it. I'd lose it somewhere out
in the marsh."
"I had no pistol." Not yet could she take him into her confidence to
that extent, although she knew that he was about to stake his
professional reputation on her acquittal.
He dismissed the subject abruptly. "By the way, I gave the story of
Frieda's attempt to blackmail you to Broderick and two other men just
before I left town--laying emphasis on the fact that you always drank a
glass of filtered water before going to bed. They made a wry face over
that, but it is news and they must publish it. There are many things in
your favour--particularly Frieda's assertion before the coroner that she
knew nothing of the case. She is a confessed perjurer. Also, why didn't
she answer when you called up to her, if she was on the back stairs?
There are things that satisfy a grand jury that will not go down with a
trial jury. Now you must, you must trust me."
She looked up at him dully. But in a moment her eyes warmed and she
smiled faintly. All the female in her responded to the traditional
strength and power of the male. She also knew the sensitiveness of man's
vanity and the danger either of starving it or dealing it a sudden blow.
She sometimes felt sorry for men. It was their self-appointed task to
run the planet, and they must be reminded just so often how wonderful
they were, lest they lose courage; one of the several obliging
weaknesses of which women rarely scrupled to take advantage.
As she put out her hand and took his, she looked very feminine and
sweet. Her face was flushed and tears had softened her large blue-grey
eyes that could look so virginal and cold.
"I know you will get me off. Don't imagine for a moment I doubt that; it
is a sustaining faith that will carry me through the trial itself. But
it is this terrible ordeal in prison that I dread--and the publicity--my
good name dragged in the dust."
"You can change that name for mine the day you are acquitted."
It suddenly occurred to her that this might be a very sensible thing to
do, and simultaneously she appreciated the fact that he possessed what
was called charm and magnetism. Moreover, the complete devotion of even
a passably attractive member of the over-sex in alarming predicaments
was a very precious thing. Possibly for the first time in her life she
experienced a sensation of gratitude, and she smiled at him so radiantly
that he caught his breath.
"No one but you could have consoled me for the loss of Anna, but you are
not to say one word of that sort to me until I am out of this dreadful
place. I couldn't stand the contrast! Will you promise?"
"Very well."
"Now will you really do something for me--get me a sleeping powder from
the druggist? To-morrow I shall be myself again, but I must sleep
to-night."
"I'll get it." His voice was matter of fact, for love made certain of
his instincts keen if it blunted others. "That is, if you will promise
to go to bed early and see none of these reporters, men or women. They
are camped all over the Courthouse yard."
She gave an exclamation of disgust. "I'll never see another newspaper
person as long as I live. They are responsible for this, and I hate
them."
"Good! You shall have the powder in ten minutes. Oh, by the way, will
you give me a written permit to pass the night in your house? I want to
go through your husband's papers and see if I can find any clue to
unknown enemies. He may have received threatening letters. I can obtain
the official permission without any difficulty."
She wrote the permit unsuspiciously. At nine o'clock that night he let
