"Rally? So that's what he calls it."

"And you did prompt her to talk to those men in their language--several
languages, I understand, quick as lightning, one after the other--and to
say things that counteracted at once all Mr. Moore's influence."

"Now," said Jeffrey, in a high degree of interest, "we're getting
somewhere. What did I say to them? What did I say through Madame
Beattie?"

"We don't know."

"Ask Moore."

"Mr. Moore doesn't know."

"He can ask his interpreter, can't he?"

"Andrea? He won't tell."

Jeffrey released his knees and lay back against the bench. He gave a
hoot of delighted laughter, and Lydia, watching them from the window,
thought of Miss Amabel with a wistful envy and wondered how she did it.

"Weedie's own henchman won't go back on her," he exclaimed, in an
incredulous pleasure. "Now what spell has that extraordinary old woman
over the south of Europe?"

"South of Europe?"

"Why, yes, the population you've got here. It's south of Europe chiefly,
isn't it? eastern Europe?--the part Weedie hasn't turned into ward
politicians yet. Who is Andrea? This is the first time I have heard his
honourable name. Weedon's interpreter."

"He has the fruit store on Mill Street."

"Ah! Amabel, do you know what this interview has done for me? It's given
me a perfectly overwhelming desire to speak the tongues."

"Foreign languages, Jeff?"

"Any language that will help me beat Weedie at his game, or give me a
look at the cards old Madame Beattie holds. I feel a fool. Why can't I
know what they're talking about when they can kick up row enough under
my very nose to make you come and rag me like this?"

"Jeff," said Miss Amabel, "unless you are prepared to go into social
work seriously and see things as Mr. Moore sees them--"

Jeff gave a little crow of derision and she coloured. "It wouldn't hurt
you, Jeff, to see some things as he does. The necessity of getting into
touch with our foreign population--"

"I'll do that all right," said Jeffrey. "That's precisely what I mean.
I'm going to learn foreign tongues and talk to 'em."

"They say Madame Beattie speaks a dozen or so and I don't know how many
dialects."

"Oh, I can't compete with Madame Beattie. She's got the devil on her
side."

Miss Amabel rose to her feet and stood regarding him sorrowfully. He
looked up at her with a glance full of affection, yet too merry for her
heavy mood. Then he got on his feet and took her parasol.

"You haven't noticed the corn," said he. "Don't you know you must praise
the work of a man's hands?"

"I don't know whether it's a good thing for you or not," said she. "Yes,
it must have been, so far. You're tanned."

"I feel fit enough."

"You don't look over twenty."

"Oh, I'm over twenty, thank you," said Jeff. A shadow settled on his
face; it even touched his eyes, mysteriously, and dulled them. "I'm not
tanned all through."

"But you're only doing this for a time?"

"I don't know, Amabel. I give you my word I don't know the next step
after to-day--or this hill of corn--or that."

"If you wanted capital, Jeff--"

He took up a fold of her little shoulder ruffle and put it to his lips,
and Lydia saw and wondered.

"No, dear," said he. "I sha'n't need your money. Only don't you let
Weedie have it, to muddle away in politics."

She was turning at the edge of the corn and looking at him perplexedly.
Her mission hadn't succeeded, but she loved him and wanted to make that
manifest.

"I can't bear to have you doing irresponsible things with Madame
Beattie. She's not fit--"

"Not fit for me to play with? Madame Beattie won't hurt me."

"She may hurt Lydia."

"Lydia!"

The word leaped out of some deep responsiveness she did not understand.

"Don't you know how much they are together? They go driving."

"Well, what's that? Madame Beattie's a good old sport. She won't harm
Lydia."

But instead of keeping up his work, he went on to the house with her.
Miss Amabel would not go in and when he had said good-bye to
her--affectionately, charmingly, as if to assure her that, after all,
she needn't fear him even with Weedie who wasn't important enough to
slay--he entered the house in definite search of Lydia. He went to the
library, and there she was, in the window niche, where she sat to watch
him. Day by day Lydia sat there when he was in the garden and she was
not busy and he knew it was a favourite seat of hers for, glancing over
his rows of corn, he could see the top of her head bent over a book. He
did not know how long she pored over a page with eyes that saw him, a
wraith of him hovering over the print, nor that when their passionate
depths grew hungrier for the actual sight of him, how she threw one
glance at his working figure and bent to her book again. As he came
suddenly in upon her she sprang up and faced him, the book closed upon a
trembling finger.

"Lydia," said he, "you're great chums with Madame Beattie, aren't you?"

Lydia gave a little sigh of a relief she hardly understood. What she
expected him to ask her she did not know, but there were strange warm
feelings in her heart she would not have shown to Jeff. She could have
shown them before that minute--when he had said the thing that ought not
even to be remembered: "I only love you." Before that, she thought, she
had been quite simply his sister. Now she was a watchful servitor of a
more fervid sort. Jeffrey thought she was afraid of being scolded about
her queer old crony.

"Sit down," he said. "There's nothing to be ashamed of in liking Madame
Beattie. You do like her, don't you?"

"Oh, yes," said Lydia. "I like her very much."

She had sunk back in her chair and closed the book though she kept it in
her lap. Jeffrey sat astride a chair and folded his arms on the top.
Some of the blinds had been closed to keep out the heat, and the dusk
hid the deep, crisp lines of his face. Under his moist tossed hair it
was a young face, as Miss Amabel had told him, and his attitude became a
boy.

"Lydia," said he, "what do you two talk about?"

"Madame Beattie and I?"

"Yes. In those long drives, for instance, what do you say?"

Lydia looked at him, her eyes narrowed slightly, and Jeffrey knew she
did not want to tell. When Esther didn't want to tell, a certain soft
glaze came over her eyes. Jeffrey had seen the glaze for a number of
years before he knew what it meant. And when he found out, though it had
been a good deal of a shock, he hardly thought the worse of Esther. He
generalised quite freely and concluded that you couldn't expect the same
standards of women as from men; and after that he was a little nervous
and rather careful about the questions he asked. But Lydia's eyes had no
glaze. They were desperate rather, the eyes of a little wild thing that
is going to be frightened and possibly caught. Jeffrey felt quite
excited, he was so curious to know what form the lie would take.

"Politics," said Lydia.

Jeffrey broke out into a laugh.

"Oh, come off!" said he. "Politics. Not much you don't."

Lydia laughed, too, in a sudden relief and pleasure. She didn't like her
lie, it seemed.

"No," said she, "we don't. But I tell Anne if people ask questions it's
at their own risk. They must take what they get."

"Anne wouldn't tell a lie," said Jeffrey.

She flared up at him.

"I wouldn't either. I never do. You took me by surprise."

"Does Madame Beattie talk to you about her life abroad?"

He ventured this. But she was gazing at him in the clearest candour.

"Oh, no." "About what, Lydia? Tell me. It bothers me."

"Did Miss Amabel bother you?" The charming face was fiery.

"I don't need Amabel to tell me you're taking long drives with Madame
Beattie. She's a battered old party, Lydia. She's seen lots of things
you don't want even to hear about."

She was gazing at him now in quite a dignified surprise.

"If you mean things that are not nice," she said, "I shouldn't listen to
them. But she wouldn't want me to. Madame Beattie is--" She saw no
adequate way to put it.

But Jeffrey understood her. He, too, believed Madame Beattie had a
decency of her own.

"Never mind," said he. "Only I want to keep you as you are. So would
father. And Anne."

Lydia sat straight in her chair, her cheeks scarlet from excitement, her
eyes speaking with the full power of their limpid beauty. What if she
were to tell him how they talked of Esther and her cruelty, and of him
and his misfortunes, and of the need of his at once setting out to
reconstruct his life? But it would not do. This youth here astride the
chair didn't seem like the Jeff who was woven into all she could imagine
of tragedy and pain. He looked like the Jeff she had heard the colonel
tell about, who had been reckless and impulsive and splendid, and had
been believed in always and then had grown up into a man who made and
lost money and was punished for it. He was speaking now in his new
coaxing voice.

"There's one thing you could tell me. That wouldn't do any harm."

"What?" asked Lydia.

"Your old crony must have mentioned the night we ran away with Weedon
Moore's automobile."

"Oh, yes," said Lydia. Her eyes were eloquent now. "She told me."

"Did she tell you what she said to Weedon's crowd, to turn them round
like a flock of sheep and bring them over to us?"

"Oh, yes, she told me."

"What was it?"

But Lydia again looked obstinate, though she ventured a little plea of
her own.

"Jeff, you must go into politics."

"Not on your life."

"The way is all prepared."

"Who prepared it? Madame Beattie?"

"You are going," said Lydia, this irrepressibly and against her
judgment, "to be the most popular man in Addington."

"Gammon!" This he didn't think very much of. If this was how Lydia and
Madame Beattie spent their hours of talk, let them, the innocents. It
did nobody harm. But he was still conscious of a strong desire: to
protect Lydia, in her child's innocence, from evil. He wondered if she
were not busy enough, that she had time to take up Madame Beattie. Yet
she and Anne seemed as industrious as little ants.

"Lydia," said he, "what if I should have an Italian fruit-seller come up
here to the house and teach Italian to you and me--and maybe Anne?"

"Andrea?" she asked.

"Do you know him?"

"Madame Beattie does." She coloured slightly, as if all Madame Beattie's
little secrets were to be guarded.

"We'll have him up here if he'll come, and we'll learn to pass the bread
in Italian. Shall we?"

"I'd love to," said Lydia. "We're learning now, Anne and I."

"Of Andrea?"

"Oh, no. But we're picking up words as fast as we can, all kinds of
dialects. From the classes, you know, Miss Amabel's classes. It's
ridiculous to be seeing these foreigners twice a week and not understand
them or not have them half understand us."

"It's ridiculous anyway," said Jeffrey absently. He was regarding the
shine on Lydia's brown hair. "What's the use of Addington's being
overrun with Italy and Greece and Poland and Russia? We could get men
enough to work in the shops, good straight stock."

"Well," said Lydia conclusively, "we've got them now. They're here. So
we might as well learn to understand them and make them understand us."

Jeff smiled at her, the little soft young thing who seemed so practical.
Lydia looked like a child, but she spoke like the calm house mother who
had had quartered on her a larger family than the house would hold and
yet knew the invaders must be accommodated in decent comfort somewhere.
He sat there and stared at her until she grew red and fidgety. He seemed
to be questioning something in her inner mind.

"What is it?" she asked.

"Nothing," said Jeff, and got up and went away to his own room. He had
been thinking of her clear beauties of simple youthful outline and pure
restraints, and wondering why the world wasn't made so that he could
take her little brown hand in his and walk off with her and sit all day
on a piney bank and listen to birds and find out what she thought about
the prettiness of things. She was not his sister, she was not his child,
though the child in her so persuaded him; and in spite of the dewy
memory of her kiss she could not be his love. Yet she was most dear to
him.

He threw himself down on the sofa and clasped his hands under his head,
and he laughed suddenly because he was taking refuge in the thought of
Esther. That Esther had become sanctuary from his thoughts of Lydia was
an ironic fact indeed, enough to make mirth crack its cheeks. But since
he was bound to Esther, the more he thought of her the better. He was
not consciously comparing them, the child Lydia and the equipped siren,
to Esther's harm. Only he knew at last what Esther was. She was Circe on
her island. Its lights hung high above the wave, the sound of its music
beat across the foam. Reardon heard the music; so did Alston Choate.
Jeffrey knew that, in the one time he had heard Choate speak of her, a
time when he had been in a way compelled to; and though it was the
simplest commonplace, something new was beating in his voice. Choate had
heard Esther's music, he had seen the dancing lights, and Esther had
been willing he and all men should. There was no mariner who sailed the
seas so insignificant as not to be hailed by Esther. That was the
trouble. Circe's isle was there, and she was glad they knew it. Jeffrey
did not go so far as to think she wanted inevitably to turn them into
beasts, but he knew she was virtually telling them she had the power.
That had been one of the first horrors of his disenchantment, when she
had placed herself far enough away from him by neither writing to him
nor visiting him; then he had seen her outside the glamour of her
presence. Once he had been proud when the eyes of all men followed her.
That was in the day of his lust for power and life, when her empery
seemed equal in degree to his. Something brutal used to come up in him
when men looked boldly at her, and while he wanted to quench the assault
of their hot eyes it was always with the equal brutality: "She's mine."
That was while he thought she walked unconscious of the insult. But when
he knew she called it tribute, a rage more just than jealousy came up
in him, and he hated something in her as he hated the men desiring her.

Yet now the thought of her was his refuge. She was not his, but he was
hers to the end of earthly time. There was no task for him to do but
somehow to shield Lydia from the welling of her wonderful devotion to
him. If Esther was Circe on her island, Lydia was the nymph in a clear
mountain brook of some undiscovered wood where the birds came to bathe,
but no hoof had ever muddied the streams. If she had, out of her
hero-worship, conceived a passion for him, he had an equal passion for
her, of protectingness and sad certainty that he could do no better than
ensure her distance from him.




XXIII


Jeffrey, in his working clothes, went down to Mill Street and found
Andrea presiding over a shop exhaling the odour of pineapple and
entrancing to the eye, with its piled ovals and spheres of red and
yellow, its diversities of hue and surface. It was a fruit shop, and God
had made the fruit beautiful and Andrea had disposed it so. His wife,
too, was there, a round, dark creature in a plaid skirt and a shirt
waist with islands of lace over a full bosom, her black hair braided and
put round and round her head, and a saving touch of long earrings to
tell you she was still all peasant underneath. A soft round-faced boy
was in charge, and ran out to tell Jeffrey prices. But they all knew
him. Jeffrey felt the puzzle begin all over when Andrea came hurrying
out, like a genial host at an inn, hands outstretched, and his wife
followed him. They looked even adoring, and again Jeffrey wondered, so
droll was their excess of welcome, if he were going to be embraced. The
boy, too, was radiant, and, like an acolyte at some ritual, more humbly
though exquisitely proffered his own fit portion of worship. Jeffrey, it
being the least he could offer, shook hands all round. Then he asked
Andrea:

"Who do you think I am? What did Madame Beattie tell you?"

Andrea spread his hands dramatically, palms outward, and implied
brokenly that though he understood English he did not speak it to such
an extent as would warrant him in trying to explain what was best left
alone. He would only repeat a word over and over, always with an access
of affection, and when Jeffrey asked:

"Does that mean 'prisoner'?" he owned it did. It seemed to hold for the
three the sum of human perfectibility. Jeffrey was The Prisoner, and
therefore they loved him. He gave up trying to find out more; it seemed
to him he could guess the riddle better if he had a word or two of
Andrea's language to help him, and he asked summarily if they couldn't
have some lessons together. Wouldn't Andrea come up to the house and
talk Italian? Andrea blossomed out in gleam of teeth and incredible
shininess of eyes. He would come. That night? Yes, he would come that
night. So Jeffrey shook hands again all round and went away, curiously
ill at ease until he had turned the corner; the warmth of their
adoration seemed burning into his back.

But that night Andrea did not come. The family had assembled, Anne a
little timid before new learning, Lydia sitting on the edge of her chair
determined to be phenomenal because Jeffrey must be pleased, and even
Mary Nellen with writing pads and pencils at the table to scrape up such
of the linguistic leavings as they might. At nine o'clock the general
attention began to relax, and Lydia widely yawned. Jeffrey, looking at
her, caught the soft redness of her mouth and thought, forgetful of
Circe's island where he had taken refuge, how sweet the little barbarian
was.

But nobody next day could tell him why Andrea had not come, not even
Andrea himself. Jeffrey sought him out at the fruit-stand and Andrea
again shone with welcome. But he implied, in painfully halting English,
that he could not give lessons at all. Nor could any of his countrymen
in Addington.

Jeffrey stood upon no ceremony with him.

"Why the devil," said he, "do you talk to me as if you'd begun English
yesterday? You forget I've heard you translating bunkum up on the
circus-ground."

Andrea's eyes shone the more enchantingly. He was shameless, though. He
took nothing back, and even offered Jeffrey an enormous pineapple, with
the air of wanting to show his good-will and expecting it to be received
with an equal open-heartedness. Jeffrey walked away with the pineapple,
beaten, and reflecting soberly, his brow tightened into a knot. Things
were going on just outside his horizon, and he wasn't to know. Who did
know? Madame Beattie, certainly. The old witch was at the bottom of it.
She had, for purposes of her own, wound the foreign population round her
finger, and she was going to unwind them when the time came to spin a
web. A web of many colours, he knew it would be, doubtless strong in
some spots and snarled in others. Madame Beattie was not the person to
spin a web of ordinary life.

He went on in his blue working clothes, absently taking off his hat to
the ladies he met who looked inquiringly at him and then quite eagerly
bowed. Jeff was impatient of these recognitions. The ladies were even
too gracious. They were anxious to stand by him in the old Addington
way, and as for him, he wanted chiefly to hoe his corn and live unseen.
But his feet did not take him home. They led him down the street and up
the stairs into Alston Choate's office, and there, hugging his
pineapple, he entered, and found Alston sitting by the window in the
afternoon light, his feet on a chair and a novel in his hand. This back
window of the office looked down over the river, and beyond a line of
willows to peaceful flats, and now the low sun was touching up the scene
with afternoon peace. Alston, at sight of him, took his legs down
promptly. He, too, was more eager in welcome because Jeffrey was a
marked figure, and went so seldom up other men's stairs. Alston threw
his book on the table, and Jeffrey set his pineapple beside it.

"There's a breeze over here," said Alston, and they took chairs by the
window.

For a minute Jeffrey looked out over the low-lying scene. He drew a
quick breath. This was the first time he had overlooked the old
playground since he had left Addington for his grown-up life.

"We used to sail the old scow down there," he said. "Remember?"

Choate nodded.

"She's down there now in one of the yards, filled with red geraniums."

They sat for a while in the silence of men who find it unexpectedly
restful to be together and need not even say so. Yet they were not here
at all. They were boys of Addington, trotting along side by side in the
inherited games of Addington. Alston offered Jeffrey a smoke, and Jeff
refused it.

"See here," said he, "what's Madame Beattie up to?"

Choate turned a startled glance on him. He did not see how Jeffrey, a
stranger in his wife's house, should know anything at all was up.

"She's been making things rather lively," he owned. "Who told you?"

"Told me? I was in it, at the beginning. She and I drove out by chance,
to hear Moore doing his stunt in the circus-ground. That began it. But
now, it seems, she's got some devil's influence over Moore's gang. She's
told 'em something queer about me."

"She's told 'em something that makes things infernally uncomfortable for
other people," said Choate bluntly. "Did you know she had squads of
them--Italians, Poles, Abyssinians, for all I know, playing on
dulcimers--she's had them come up at night and visit her in her bedroom.
They jabber and hoot and smoke, I believe. She's established an informal
club--in that house."

Alston's irritation was extreme. It was true Addington to refer to
foreign tongues as jabber, and "that house", Jeffrey saw, was a stiff
paraphrase for Esther's dwelling-place. He perceived here the same angry
partisanship Reardon had betrayed. This was the jealous fire kindled
invariably in men at Esther's name.

"How do you know?" he asked.

Alston hesitated. He looked, not abashed, but worried, as if he did not
see precisely the road of good manners in giving a man more news about
his wife than the man was able to get by himself.

"Did Esther tell you?" Jeff inquired.

"Yes. She told me."

"When?"

"Several times. She has been very uncomfortable. She has needed
counsel."

Choate had gone on piling up what might have been excuses for Esther,
from an irritated sense that he was being too closely cross-examined. He
had done a good deal of it himself in the way of his profession, and he
was aware that it always led to conclusions the victim had not foreseen
and was seldom willing to face. And he had in his mind not wholly
recognised yet unwelcome feelings about Esther. They were not feelings
such as he would have allowed himself if he had known her as a young
woman living with her husband in the accepted way. He did not permit
himself to state that Esther herself might not, in that case, have
mingled for him the atmosphere she breathed about him now. But Jeffrey
did not pursue the dangerous road of too great candour. He veered, and
asked, as if that might settle a good many questions:

"What's the matter with this town, anyway?"

"Addington?" said Choate. "You find it changed?"

"Changed! I believe you. Addington used to be a perfect picture--like a
summer landscape--you know the kind. You walked into the picture the
minute you heard the name of Addington. It was full of nice trees and
had a stream and cows with yellow light on them. When you got into
Addington you could take a long breath."

For the first time in his talk with anybody since he came home Jeff was
feeling lubricated. He couldn't express himself carelessly to his
father, who took him with a pathetic seriousness, nor to the girls, to
whom he was that horribly uncomfortable effigy, a hero. But here was
another fellow who, he would have said, didn't care a hang, and Jeff
could talk to him.

"There's no such picture now," Alston assured him. "The Addington we
knew was Victorian."

"Yes. It hadn't changed in fifty years. What's it changing for now?"

"My dear boy," said Alston seriously, because he had got on one of his
own hobbies that he couldn't ride in Addington for fear of knocking
ladies off their legs, "don't you know what's changing the entire world?
It's the birth of compassion."

"Compassion?"

"Yes. Sympathy, ruth, pity. I looked up the synonyms the other day. But
we're at the crude, early stages of it, and it's devilish uncomfortable.
Everybody's so sorry for everybody that we can't tell the kitchen maid
to scour the knives without explaining."

Jeff was rather bewildered.

"Are we so compassionate as all that?" he asked.

"Not really. It's my impression most of us aren't compassionate at all."

"Amabel is."

"Oh, yes, Amabel and Francis of Assisi and a few others. But the rest of
us have caught the patter and it makes us 'feel good'. We wallow in it.
We feel warm and self-righteous--comfy, mother says, when she wants to
tuck me up at night same as she used to after I'd been in swimming and
got licked. Yes, we're compassionate and we feel comfy."

"But what's Weedon Moore got to do with it? Is Weedie compassionate?"

"Oh, Weedie's working Amabel and telling the mill hands they're great
fellows and very much abused and ought to own the earth. Weedie wants
their votes."

"Then Weedie is up for office? Amabel told me so, but I didn't think
Addington'd stand for it. Time was when, if a man like Weedie had put up
his head, nobody'd have taken the trouble to bash it. We should have
laughed."

"We don't laugh now," said Choate gravely. There was even warning in his
voice. "Not since Weedie and his like have told the working class it
owns the earth."

"And doesn't it?"

"Yes. In numbers. It can vote itself right into destruction--which is
what it's doing."

"And Weedie wants to be mayor."

"God knows what he wants. Mayor, and then governor and--I wouldn't
undertake to say where Weedie'd be willing to stop. Not short of an
ambassadorship."

"Choate," said Jeffrey cheerfully, "you're an alarmist."

"Oh, no, I'm not. A man like Weedie can get anywhere, because he's no
scruples and he can rake in mere numbers to back him. And it's all
right. This is a democracy. If the majority of the people want a
demagogue to rule over them, they've a perfect right to go to the devil
their own way."

"But where's he get his infernal influence? Weedie Moore!"

"He gets it by telling every man what the man wants to hear. He gets
hold of the ignorant alien, and tells him he is a king in his own right.
He tells him Weedie'll get him shorter and shorter hours, and make him a
present of the machinery he runs--or let him break it--and the poor
devil believes him. Weedie has told him that's the kind of a country
this is. And nobody else is taking the trouble to tell him anything
else."

"Well, for God's sake, why don't they?"

"Because we're riddled with compassion, I tell you. If we see a man
poorer than we are, we get so apologetic we send him bouquets--our women
do."

"Is that what the women here are doing?"

"Oh, yes. If there's a strike over at Long Meadow they put on their furs
and go over and call on a few operatives and find eight living in one
room, in a happy thrift, and they come back and hold an indignation
meeting and 'protest'."

"You're not precisely a sentimentalist, are you?" said Jeff. He was
seeing Choate in the new Addington as Choate presented it.

"No, by George! I want to see things clarified and the good
old-fashioned virtues come back into their place--justice and
common-sense. Compassion is something to die for. But you can't build
states out of it alone. It makes me sick--sick, when I see men getting
dry-rot."

Jeff's face was a map of dark emotion. His mind went back over the past
years. He had not been made soft by the nemesis that laid him by the
heels. He had been terribly hardened in some ways, so calloused that it
sometimes seemed to him he had not the actual nerve surface for feeling
anything. The lambent glow of beauty might fall upon him unheeded; even
its lightnings might not penetrate his shell. But that had been better
than the dry-rot of an escape from righteous punishment.

"You know, Choate," said he, "I believe the first thing for a man to
learn is that he can't dodge penalties."

"I believe you. Though if he dodges, he doesn't get off. That's the
other penalty, rot inside the rind. All the palliatives in the
world--the lying securities and false peace--all of them together aren't
worth the muscle of one man going out to bang another man for just
cause. And getting banged!"

Jeff was looking at him quizzically.

"Where do you live," said he, "in the new Addington or the old one?"

Choate answered rather wearily, as if he had asked himself that question
and found the answer disheartening.

"Don't know. Guess I'm a non-resident everywhere. I curse about
Addington by the hour--the new Addington. But it's come, and come to
stay."

"You going to let Moore administer it?"

"If he's elected."

"He can't be elected. We won't have it. What you going to do?"

"Nothing, in politics," said Alston. "They're too vile for a decent man
to touch."

Jeffrey thought he had heard the sound of that before. Even in the older
days there had been some among the ultra-conservative who refused to
pollute their ideals by dropping a ballot. But it hadn't mattered much
then. Public government had been as dual in its nature as good and
evil, sometimes swaying to the side of one party, sometimes the other;
but always, such had been traditionary influence, the best man of a
party had been nominated. Then there was no talk of Weedon Moores.

"Do you suppose Weedie's going on with his circus-ground rallies?" he
asked.

"They say not."

"Who?"

"Oh, I've kept a pretty close inquiry afoot. I'm told the men won't go."

"Why not?"

"Madame Beattie won't let them."

"The devil she won't! What's the old witch's spell?"

"I don't know. Esther--" he caught himself up--"Mrs. Blake doesn't know.
She only knows, as I tell you, the men come to the house, and talk
things over. And I hear from reliable sources, Weedie summons them and
the men simply won't go. So I assume Madame Beattie forbids it."

"It's not possible." Jeff had withdrawn his gaze from the old playground
and sat staring thoughtfully at his legs, stretched to their fullest
length. "I rather wish I could talk with her," he said, "Madame Beattie.
I don't see how I can though, unless I go there."

"Jeff," said Alston, earnestly, "you mustn't do that."

He spoke unguardedly, and now that the words were out, he would have
recalled them. But he made the best of a rash matter, and when Jeff
frowned up at him, met the look with one as steady.

"Why mustn't I?" asked Jeff.

It was very quietly said.

"I beg your pardon," Choate answered. "I spoke on impulse."

"Yes. But I think you'd better go on."

Alston kept silence. He was looking out of the window now, pale and
immovably obstinate.

"Do you, by any chance," said Jeff, "think Esther is afraid of me?"

Choate faced round upon him, immediately grateful to him.

"That's it," he said. "You've said it. And since it's so, and you
recognise it, why, you see, Jeff, you really mustn't, you know."

"Mustn't go there?" said Jeff almost foolishly, the thing seemed to him
so queer. "Mustn't see my wife, because she says she is afraid of me?"

"Because she is afraid of you," corrected Choate impulsively, in what
he might have told himself was his liking for the right word. But he had
a savage satisfaction in saying it. For the instant it made it seem as
if he were defending Esther.

"I'd give a good deal," said Jeff slowly, "to hear just how Esther told
you she was afraid of me. When was it, for example?"

"It was at no one time," said Choate unwillingly. Yet it seemed to him
Jeff did deserve candour at all their hands.

"You mean it's been a good many times?"

"I mean I've been, in a way, her adviser since--"

"Since I've been in jail. That's very good of you, Choate. But do you
gather Esther has told other people she is afraid of me, or that she has
told you only?"

"Why, man," said Choate impatiently, "I tell you I've been her adviser.
Our relations are those of client and counsel. Of course she's said it
to nobody but me."

"Not to Reardon," Jeff's inner voice was commenting satirically. "What
would you think if you knew she had said it to Reardon, too? And how
many more? She has spun her pretty web, and you're a prisoner. So is
Reardon. You've each a special web. You are not allowed to meet."

He laughed out, and Alston looked at him in a sudden offence. It seemed
to Alston that he had been sacrificing all sorts of delicacies that Jeff
might be justly used, and the laugh belittled them both. But Jeff at
that instant saw, not Alston, but a new vision of life. It might have
been that a tide had rushed in and wiped away even the prints of
Esther's little feet. It might have been that a wind blew in at the
windows of his mind and beat its great wings in the corners of it and
winnowed out the chaff. As he saw life then his judgments softened and
his irritations cooled. Nothing was left but the vision of life itself,
the uncomprehended beneficence, the consoler, the illimitable beauty we
look in the face and do not see. For an instant perhaps he had caught
the true proportions of things and knew at last what was worth weeping
over and what was matter for a healthy mirth. It was all mirth perhaps,
this show of things Lord God had set us in. He had not meant us to take
it dumbly. He had hoped we should see at every turn how queer it is, and
yet how orderly, and get our comfort out of that. He had put laughter
behind every door we open, to welcome us. Grief was there, too, but if
we fully understood Lord God and His world, there would be no grief:
only patience and a gay waiting on His time. And all this came out of
seeing Alston Choate, who thought he was a free man, hobbled by Esther's
web.

Jeffrey got up and Alston looked at him in some concern, he was so
queer, flushed, laughing a little, and with a wandering eye. At the door
he stopped.

"About Weedie," he said. "We shall have to do something to Weedie.
Something radical. He's not going to be mayor of Addington. And I rather
think you'll have to get into politics. You'd be mayor yourself if you'd
get busy."

Jeffrey had no impulse to-day to go and ask Esther if she were afraid of
him as he had when Reardon told him the same tale. He wasn't thinking of
Esther now. He was hugging his idea to his breast and hurrying with it,
either to entrust it to somebody or to wrap it up in the safety of pen
and ink while it was so warm. And when he got home he came on Lydia,
sitting on the front steps, singing to herself and cuddling a kitten in
the curve of her arm. Lydia with no cares, either of the house or her
dancing class or Jeff's future, but given up to the idleness of a summer
afternoon, was one of the most pleasing sights ever put into the hollow
of a lovely world. Jeffrey saw her, as he was to see everything now,
through the medium of his new knowledge. He saw to her heart and found
