women that never have worked, not so much in the 
publicity it may give but in the sense of mental expansion; and, in the instance of war, the passion of 
usefulness, the sense of dedication to a high cause, the 
necessary frequent suppression of self, stamp the soul 
with an impress that never can be obliterated. That 
these women engaged in good works often quarrel 
like angry cats, or fight for their relief organization as 
a lioness would fight for her hungry cub, is beside the 
point. That is merely another way of admitting they 
are human beings; not necessarily women, but just 
human beings. As it was in the beginning, is now, etc. 
Far better let loose their angry passions in behalf of 
the men who are fighting to save the world from a 
reversion to barbarism, than rowing their dressmakers, 
glaring across the bridge table, and having their blood 
poisoned by eternal jealousy over some man. 

And if it will hasten the emancipation of the American man from the thralldom of snobbery still another 
barrier will go down in the path of the average woman. 
Just consider for a moment how many men are fail- 
ures. They struggle along until forty or forty-five 
"on their own," although fitted by nature to be clerks 
and no more, striving desperately to keep up appearances — for the sake of their own pride, for the sake 
of their families, even for the sake of being "looked 
up to" by their wife and observant offspring. But 
without real hope, because without real ability (they 
soon, unless fools, outlive the illusions of youth when 
the- conquest of fortune was a matter of course) always in debt, and doomed to defeat. 

How many women have said to me — women in their 
thirties or early forties, and with two or three children 
of increasing demands : "Oh, if I could help ! How 
unjust of parents not to train girls to do something 
they can fall back on. I want to go to work myself 
and insure my children a good education and a start 
in the world, but what can I do? If I had been 
specialized in any one thing I'd use it now whether 
my husband liked it or not. But although I have 
plenty of energy and courage and feel that I could 
succeed in almost anything I haven't the least idea how 
to go about it." 

If a woman's husband collapses into death or desuetude while her children are young, it certainly is the 
bounden duty of some member of her family to sup- 
port her until her children are old enough to go to 
school, for no one can take her place^ in the home before that period. Moreover, her mind should be as 
free of anxiety as her body of strain. But what a 
ghastly reflection upon civilization it is when she is 
obliged to stand on her feet all day in a shop or factory, or make tempting edibles for some Woman's 
Exchange, because she cannot afford to spend time 
upon a belated training that might admit her lucratively to one of the professions or business industries. 

The childless woman solves the problem with com- 
parative ease. She invariably shows more energy and 
decision, provided, of course, these qualities have been 
latent within her. 

Nevertheless, it is often extraordinary just what she 
does do. For instance I knew a family of girls upon 
whose college education an immense sum had been 
expended, and whose intellectual arrogance I never 
have seen equalled. When their father failed and 
died, leaving not so much as a small life insurance, 
what did they do? Teach? Write? Edit? Become 
some rich and ignorant man's secretary? Not a bit 
of it. They cooked. Always noted in their palmy 
days for their "table," and addicted to relieving the 
travail of intellect with the sedative of the homeliest 
of the minor arts, they began on preserves for the 
Woman's Exchange; and half the rich women in 
town were up at their house day after day stirring 
molten masses in a huge pot on a red-hot range. 

It was sometime before they were taken seriously, 
and, particularly after the enthusiasm of their friends 
waned, there was a time of hard anxious struggle. 



 

But they were robust and determined, and in time 
they launched out as caterers and worked up a first- 
class business. They took their confections to the 
rear entrances of their friends' houses on festive occasions and accepted both pay and tips with lively gratitude. They educated their younger brothers and lost 
their arrogance. They never lost their friends. 

Owing to dishonest fiction the impression prevails 
throughout the world that "Society" is heartless and 
that the rich and well-to-do drop their friends the moment financial reverses force them either, to reduce 
their scale of living far below the standard, or go to 
work. When that happens it is the fault of the reversed, not of the entrenched. False pride, constant 
whining, or insupportable irritabilities gradually force 
them into a dreary class apart. If anything, people 
of wealth and secure position take a pride in standing 
by their old friends (their "own sort"), in showing 
themselves above all the means sins of which fiction 
and the stage have accused them, and in lending what 
assistance they can. Even when the head of the 
family has disgraced himself and either blown out his 
brains or gone to prison, it depends entirely upon the 
personalities of his women whether or not they retain 
their friends. In fact any observant student of life 
is reminded daily that one's real position in the world 
depends upon personality, more particularly if backed 
by character. Certainly it is nine-tenths of the battle 
for struggling women. 

Another woman whom I always had looked upon 



 

as a charming butterfly, but who, no doubt, had long 
shown her native shrewdness and determination in the 
home, stepped into her husband's shoes when he collapsed from strain, abetted by drink, and now competes in the insurance business with the best of the 
men. But she had borne the last of her children and 
she has perfect health. 

Galsworthy's play, The Fugitive, may not have been 
good drama but it had the virtue of provoking thought 
after one had left the theater. More than ever it 
convinced me, at least, that the women of means and 
leisure with sociological leanings should let the working girl take care of herself for a time and devote 
their attention to the far more hopeless problem of 
the lady suddenly thrown upon her own resources. 

No doubt this problem will have ceased to exist 
twenty years hence. Every girl, rich or poor, and 
all grades between, will have specialized during her 
plastic years on something to be used as a resource; 
but at present there are thousands of young women 
who find the man they married in ignorance an impossible person to live with and yet linger on in 
wretched bondage because what little they know of 
social conditions terrifies them. If they are pretty 
they fear other men as much as they fear their own 
husbands, and for all the "jobs" open to unspecialized 
women, they seem to be preeminently unfitted. If the 
rich women of every large city would build a great 
college in which every sort of trade and profession 
could be taught, from nursing to stenography, from 



 

retouching photographs to the study of law, while the 
applicant, after her sincerity had been established, was 
kept in comfort and ease of mind, with the understanding that she should repay her indebtedness in 
weekly installments after the college had launched her 
into the world, we should have no more such ghastly 
plays as The Fugitive or hideous sociological tracts as 
A Bed of Roses. 





THE world is willing and eager to buy what it 
wants. If you have goods to sell you soon find 
your place at the counter, unless owing to some fault 
of character your fellow barterers and their patrons 
will have none of you. Of course there is always the 
meanest of all passions, jealousy, waiting to thwart 
you at every turn, but no woman with a modicum of 
any one of those wares the world wants and must 
have need fear any enemy but her own loss of courage. 

The pity is that so many women with no particular 
gift and only minor energies are thrust into the economic world without either natural or deliberate 
equipment. All that saves them in nine cases out of 
ten is conserved energies, and if they are thrust out 
too young they are doubly at a disadvantage. 

A good deal has been written about the fresh en- 
thusiasm of the young worker, as contrasted with the 
slackened energies and disillusioned viewpoint of 
middle life. But I think most honest employers will 
testify that a young girl worker's enthusiasm is for 
closing time, and her dreams are not so much of the 



higher skilfulness as of the inevitable man. Nature 
is inexorable. She means that the young things shall 
reproduce. If they will not or cannot that is not her 
fault; she is always there with the urge. Even when 
girls think they sell themselves for the adornments so 
dear to youth they are merely the victims of the race, 
driven toward the goal by devious ways. Nature, of 
course, when she fashioned the world reckoned without science. I sometimes suspect her of being of 
German origin, for so methodical and mechanical is 
her kultur that she will go on repeating "two and 
two make four" until the final cataclysm. 

I think that American women are beginning to 
realize that American men are played out at forty-five ; 
or fifty, at the most. There are exceptions, of course, 
but with the vast majority the strain is too great and 
the rewards are too small. They cannot retire in time. 
I have a friend who, after a brilliant and active career, 
has withdrawn to the communion of nature and be- 
come a philosopher. He insists that all men should 
be retired by law at forty-five and condemned to 
spend the rest of their days tilling the soil gratis for 
women and the rising generation. The outdoor life 
would restore a measure of their dissipated vitality 
and prolong their lives. 

This may come to pass in time : stranger things have 
happened. But, as I remarked before, it is the present 
we have to consider. It seems to me it would be a 
good idea if every woman who is both protected and 
untrained but whose husband is approaching forty 



 

should, if not financially independent, begin seriously 
to think of fitting herself for self-support. The time 
to prepare for possible disaster is not after the torpedo 
has struck the ship. 

A thousand avenues are open to women, and fresh 
ones open yearly. She can prepare secretly, or try her 
hand at first one and then another (if she begins by 
being indeterminate) of such congenial occupations as 
are open to women of her class, beyond cooking, teaching, clerking. Those engaged in reforms, economic 
improvements, church work, and above all, to-day, war 
relief work, should not be long discovering their 
natural bent as well as its marketable value, and the 
particular rung of the ladder upon which to start. 

Many women whose energies have long been ab- 
sorbed by the home are capable of flying leaps. These 
women still in their thirties, far from neglecting their 
children when looking beyond the home, are merely 
ensuring their proper nourishment and education. 

Why do not some of the public spirited women, 
whose own fortunes are secure, form bureaus where 
all sorts of women, apprehensive of the future, may 
be examined, advised, steered on their way? In this 
they would merely be taking a leaf from the present 
volume of French history its women are writing. It is 
the women of independent means over there who have 
devised so many methods by which widows and girls 
and older spinsters tossed about in the breakers of 
war may support themselves and those dependent upon 
them. There is Mile. Thompson's ficole Feminine, for 




instance, and Madame Goujon's hundred and one practical schemes which I will not reiterate here. 

Women of the industrial class in the United States 
need new laws, but little advice how to support themselves. They fall into their natural place almost auto- 
matically, for they are the creatures of circumstances, 
which are set in motion early enough to determine 
their fate. If they do hesitate their minds are quickly 
made up for them by either their parents or their 
social unit. The great problem to-day is for the 
women of education, fastidiousness, a certain degree 
of ease, threatened with a loss of that male support 
upon which ancient custom- bred them to rely. Their 
children will be specialized ; they will see to that. But 
their own problem is acute and it behooves trained and 
successful women to take it up, unless the war lasts so 
long that every woman will find her place as inevitably 
as the working girl. 



For a long time to come women will be forced to 
leave the administering of the nation as well as of 
states and cities to men, for men are still too strong 
for them. The only sort of women that men will 
spontaneously boost into public life are pretty, bright, 
womanly, spineless creatures who may be trusted to 
set the cause of woman back a few years at least, 
and gratify their own sense of humorous superiority. 

Women would save themselves much waste of 
energy and many humiliations if they would devote 



 

themselves exclusively to helping and training their 
own sex. Thousands are at work on the problems of 
higher wage and shorter hours for women of the industrial class, but this problem of the carefully- 
nurtured, wholly untrained, and insecurely protected 
woman they have so far ignored. To my mind this 
demands the first consideration and the application of 
composite woman's highest intelligence. The indus- 
trial woman has been trained to work, she learns as 
she grows to maturity to protect herself and fight her 
own battles, and in nine cases out of ten she resents 
the interference of the leisure class in her affairs as 
much as she would charity. The leaders of every 
class should be its own strong spirits. And the term 
"class consciousness" was not invented by fashionable 
society. 

There is another problem that women, forced imminently or prospectively to support themselves, must 
face before long, and that is the heavy immigration 
from Europe. Of course some of those competent 
women over there will keep the men's jobs they hold 
now, and among the widows and the fatherless there 
will be a large number of clerks and agriculturists. 
But many reformes will be able to fill those positions 
satisfactorily, and, when sentiment has subsided, 
young women at least (who are also excellent workers) will begin to think of husbands; and, unless the 
war goes on for many years and reduces our always 
available crop, American girls of the working class 
will have to look to their laurels both ways. 



 
Here is the reverse of the picture, which possibly 
may save the too prosperous and tempting United 
States from what in the end could not fail to be a 
further demoralization of her ancient ideals and 
depletion of the old American stock : 

No matter how many men are killed in a war there 
are more males when peace is declared than the dead 
and blasted, unless starvation literally has sent the 
young folks back to the earth. During any war chil- 
dren grow up, and even in a war of three years' dura- 
tion it is estimated that as against four million males 
killed there will be six million young males to carry- 
on the race as well as its commerce and industries. 
For the business of the nation and high finance there 
are the men whose age saved them from the dangers 
of the battlefield. 

There will therefore be many million marriageable 
men in Europe if the war ends in 1917. But they will, 
for the most part, be of a very tender age indeed, and 
normal young women between twenty and thirty do 
not like spring chickens. They are beloved only by 
idealess girls of their own age, by a certain type of 
young women who are alluded to slightingly as "crazy 
about boys," possibly either because men of mature 
years find them uninteresting or because of a certain 
vampire quality in their natures, and by blasee elderly 
women who generally foot the bills. 

Dr. Talcott Williams pointed out to me not long 



 

since that after all great wars, and notably after our 
own Civil War, there has been a notable increase in 
the number of marriages in which the preponderance 
of years was on the wrong side. Also that it was not 
until after our own war that the heroine of fiction 
began to reverse the immemorial procedure and marry 
a man her inferior in years. In other words, anything she could get. This would almost argue that 
fiction is not only the historian of life but its apologist. 

It is quite true that young men coming to maturity 
during majestic periods of the world's history are not 
likely to have the callow brains and petty ideals which 
distinguished the average youth of peace. Even boys 
of fourteen these days talk intelligently of the war and 
the future. They read the newspapers, even subscribing for one if at a boarding-school. In the best of the 
American universities the men have been alive 
to the war from the first, and a large proportion of the 
young Americans who have done gallant service with 
the American Ambulance Corps had recently graduated when the war broke out. Others are serving during, vacations, and are difficult to lure back to their 
studies. 

Some of the young Europeans of eighteen or twenty 
will come home from the trenches when peace is declared, and beyond a doubt will compel the love if 
not the respect of damsels of twenty-five and upward. 
But will they care whether they fascinate spinsters of 
twenty-five and upward, or not? The fact is not to 
be overlooked that there will be as many young girls 



 

as youths, and as these girls also have matured during 
their long apprenticeship to sorrow and duty, it is not 
to be imagined they will fail to interest young warriors 
of their own age — nor fail to battle for their rights 
with every device known to the sex. 

Temperament must be taken into consideration, of 
course, and a certain percentage of men and women 
of unbalanced ages will be drawn together. That 
happens in times of peace. Moreover it is likely that 
a large number of young Germans in this country 
either will conceive it their duty to return to Ger- 
many and marry there or import the forlorn in large 
numbers. If they have already taken to themselves 
 American wives it is on the cards that they will renounce them also. There is nothing a German cannot 
be made to believe is his duty to the Fatherland, and 
he was brought up not to think. But if monarchy 
falls in Germany, and a republic, socialistic or merely 
democratic, rises on the ruins, then it is more than 
likely that the superfluous women will be encouraged 
to transfer themselves and their maidenly dreams to 
the great dumping-ground of the world. 

Unless we legislate meanwhile. 



V 
FOUR OF THE HIGHLY SPECIALIZED 

THERE are four other ways in which women 
(exclusive of the artist class) are enjoying 
remunerative careers: as social secretaries, play 
brokers, librarians, and editors; and it seems to me 
that I cannot do better than to drop generalities in 
this final chapter and give four of the most notable 
instances in which women have "made good" in these 
highly distinctive professions. I have selected four 
whom I happen to know well enough to portray at 
length : Maria de Barril, Alice Kauser, Belle da Costa 
Greene, and Honore Willsie. It is true that Mrs. 
Willsie, being a novelist, belongs to the artist class, 
but she is also an editor, which to my mind makes her 
success in both spheres the more remarkable. To edit 
means hours daily of routine, details, contacts, mechanical work, business, that would drive most writers 
of fiction quite mad. But Mrs. Willsie is exceptionally 
well balanced. 

I 

Maria De Barril 

A limited number of young women thrown abruptly 
upon their own resources become social secretaries if 



their own social positions have insensibly prepared 
them for the position, and if they live in a city large 
enough to warrant this fancy but by no means inactive post. In Washington they are much in demand 
by Senators' and Congressmen's wives suddenly translated from a small town where the banker's lady hobnobbed with the prosperous undertaker's family, to a 
city where the laws of social precedence are as rigid 
as at the court of the Hapsburgs and a good deal 
more complicated. But these young women must 
themselves have lived in Washington for many- years, 
or they will be forced to divide their salary with a 
native assistant. 

The most famous social secretary in the United 
States, if not in the world, is Maria de Barril, and 
she is secretary not to one rich woman but to New 
York society itself. Her position, entirely self-made, 
is unique and secure, and well worth telling. 

Pampered for the first twenty years of her life like 
a princess and with all her blood derived from one of 
the oldest and most relaxed nations in Europe, she 
was suddenly forced to choose between sinking out 
of sight, the mere breath kept in her body, perhaps, 
on a pittance from distant relatives, or going to work. 

She did not hesitate an instant. Being of society 
she knew its needs, and although she was too young 
to look far ahead and foresee the structure which was 
to rise upon these tentative foundations, she shrewdly 
began by offering her services to certain friends often 
hopelessly bewildered with the mass of work they 



 

were obliged to leave to incompetent secretaries and 
housekeepers. One thing led to another, as it always 
does with brave spirits, and to-day Miss de Barril has 
a position in life which, with its independence and 
freedom, she would not exchange for that of any of 
her patrons. She conducted her economic venture 
with consummate tact from the first. Owing to a 
promise made her mother, the haughtiest of old Span- 
ish dames as I remember her, she never has entered 
on business the houses of the society that employs her, 
and has retained her original social position apparently 
without effort. 

She has offices, which she calls her embassy, and 
there, with a staff of secretaries, she advises, dictates, 
revises lists, issues thousands of invitations a week 
during the season, plans entertainments for practically 
all of New York society that makes a business of 
pleasure. 

Some years ago a scion of one of those New York 
families so much written about that they have become 
almost historical, married after the death of his 
mother, and wished to introduce his bride at a dinner- 
dance in the large and ugly mansion whose portals in 
his mother's day opened only to the indisputably elect. 

The bridegroom found his mother's list, but, never 
having exercised his masculine faculties in this fashion 
before, and hazy as to whether all on that list were 
still alive or within the pale, he wrote to the social 
ambassadress asking her to come to his house on a 
certain morning and advise him. Miss de Barril replied that not even for a member of his family, devoted 
as she was to it, would she break her promise to her 
mother, and he trotted down to her without further 
parley. Moreover, she was one of the guests at the 
dinner. 

Of course it goes without saying that Miss de 
Barril has not only brains and energy, but character, 
a quite remarkably fascinating personality, and a 
thorough knowledge of the world. Many would have 
failed where she succeeded. She must have had many 
diplomatists among her ancestors, for her tact is incredible, although in her case Latin subtlety never has 
degenerated into hypocrisy. No woman has more 
devoted friends. Personally I know that I should 
have thrown them all out of the window the first 
month and then retired to a cave on a mountain. She 
must have the social sense in the highest degree, combined with a real love of "the world." 

Her personal appearance may have something to do 
with her success. Descended on one side from the 
Incas of Peru, she : looks like a Spanish grandee, and 
is known variously to her friends as "Inca," "Queen," 
and "Dona Maria"— my own name for her. When 
I knew her first she found it far too much of an 
effort to pull on her stockings and was as haughty and 
arrogant a young girl as was to be found in the then 
cold and stately city of New York. She looks as 
haughty as ever because it is difficult for a Spaniard 
of her blood to look otherwise; but her manners are 
now as charming as her manner is imposing; and if 



 

the bottom suddenly fell out of Society her developed 
force of character would steer her straight into another lucrative position with no disastrous loss of 
time. 

It remains to be pointed out that she would have 
failed in this particular sphere if New York Society 
had been as callous and devoid of loyalty even in 
those days, as the novel of fashion has won its little 
success by depicting it. The most socially eminent of 
her friends were those that helped her from the first, 
and with them she is as intimate as ever to-day. 


Aoce Berta Josephine Kauser 

Credit must be given to Elisabeth Marbury for in- 
venting the now flourishing and even over-crowded 
business of play broker; but as she was of a strongly 
masculine character and as surrounded by friends as 
Miss de Barril, her success is neither as remarkable 
nor as interesting as that of Alice Kauser, who has 
won the top place in this business in a great city to 
which she came poor and a stranger. 

Not that she had grown up in the idea that she 
must make her own way in the world. Far from it. 
It is for that reason I have selected her as another 
example of what a girl may accomplish if she have 
character and grit backed up with a thorough intellectual training. For, it must never be forgotten, 
unless one is a genius it is impossible to enter the first 



 

ranks of the world's workers without a good educa- 
tion and some experience of the world. Parents that 
realize this find no sacrifice too great to give their 
children the most essential of all starts in life. But 
the extraordinary thing in the United States of 
America is how comparatively few parents do realize 
it. Moreover, how many are weak enough, even 
when with a reasonable amount of self-sacrifice they 
could send their children through college, to yield to 
the natural desire of youth to "get out and hustle." 

Miss Kauser was born in Buda Pest, in the United 
States Consular Agency, for her father, although a 
Hungarian, was Consular Agent. It was an intellectual family and on her mother's side musically 
gifted. Miss Kauser's aunt, Etelka Gerster, when she 
came to this country as a prima donna had a brief but 
brilliant career, and the music-loving public pros- 
trated itself. But her wonderful voice was a fragile 
coloratura, and her first baby demolished it. Berta 
Gerster, Miss Kauser's mother, was almost equally renowned for a while in Europe. 

Mr. Kauser himself was a pupil of Abel Blouet at 
the Beaux Arts, but he fought in the Revolution of 
1848 in Hungary, and later with Garibaldi in the 
Hungarian Legion in Italy. 

Miss Kauser, who must have been born well after 
these stirring events, was educated by French governesses and Polish tutors. Her friends tell the story 
of her that she grew up with the determination to be 
the most beautiful woman in the world, and when she 



 

realized that, although handsome and imposing, she 
was not a great beauty according to accepted stand- 
ards, she philosophically buried this callow ambition 
and announced, "Very well ; I shall be the most intellectual woman in the world." 

There are no scales by which to make tests of these 
delicate degrees of the human mind, even in the case 
of authors who put forth four books a year, but there 
is no question that Miss Kauser is a highly accomplished woman, with a deep knowledge of the literature of many lands, a passionate feeling for style, and 
a fine judgment that is the result of years of hard 
intellectual work and an equally profound study of 
the world. And who shall say that the wild ambitions 
of her extreme youth did not play their part in mak- 
ing her what she is to-day ? I have heard "ambition" 
sneered at all my life, but never by any one who pos- 
sessed the attribute itself, or the imaginative power to 
appreciate what ambition has meant in the progress 
of the world. 

Miss Kauser studied for two years at the ficole 
Monceau in Paris, although she had been her father's 
housekeeper and a mother to the younger children 
since the age of twelve. Both in Paris and Buda Pest 
she was in constant association with friends of her 
father, who developed her intellectual breadth. 

Financial reverses brought the family to America 
and they settled in Pensacola, Florida. Here Miss 
Kauser thought it was high time to put her accomplishments to some use and help out the family exchequer. 



 

She began almost at once to teach French and music. 
When her brothers were older she made up her mind 
to seek her fortune in New York and arrived with 
a letter or two. For several months she taught music 
and literature in private families. Then Mary Bisland 
introduced her to Miss Marbury, where she attended 
to the French correspondence of the office for a year. 

But these means of livelihood were mere makeshifts. 
Ambitious, imperious, and able, it was not in her to 
work for others for any great length of time. As 
soon as she felt that she "knew the ropes" in New 
York she told certain friends she had made that she 
wished to go into the play brokerage business for her- 
self. As she inspires confidence— this is one of her 
assets— her friends staked her, and she opened her 
office with the intention of promoting American plays- 
only. Her trained mind rapidly adapted itself to business and in the course of a few years she was handling 
the plays of many of the leading dramatists for a 
proportionate number of leading producers. When the 
war broke out, so successful was she that she had a 
house of her own in the East Thirties, furnished with 
the beautiful things she had collected during her 
yearly visits to Europe — for long since she had opened 
offices in Paris and London, her business outgrowing 
its first local standard. 

The war hit her very hard. She had but recently 
left the hospital after a severe operation, which had 
followed several years of precarious health. She was 
quite a year reestablishing her former strength and 



 

full capacity for work. One of the most exuberantly 
vital persons I had ever met, she looked as frail as a 
reed during that first terrible year of the war, but now 
seems to have recovered her former energies. 

There was more than the common results of an 
operation to exasperate her nerves and keep her vital- 
ity at a low ebb. Some thirty of her male relatives 
were at the Front, and the whole world of the theater 
was smitten with a series of disastrous blows. Sixteen 
plays on the road failed in one day, expensive plays 
ran a week in New York. Managers went into bankruptcy. It was a time of strain and uncertainty and 
depression, and nobody suffered more than the play 
brokers. Miss Kauser as soon as the war broke out 
rented her house and went into rooms that she might 
send to Hungary all the money she could make over 
expenses, and for a year this money was increasingly 
difficult to collect, or even to make. But if she despaired no one heard of it. She hung on. By and by 
the financial tide turned for the country at large and 
she was one of the first to ride on the crest. Her 
business is now greater than ever, and her interest 
in life as keen. 



Belle Da Costa Greene 

This "live wire," one of the outstanding person- 
alities in New York, despite her youth, is the anti- 
thesis of the two previous examples of successful 
women in business, inasmuch as no judge on the 



 

bench nor surgeon at the Front ever had a severer 
training for his profession than she. People who 
meet for the first time the young tutelar genius of Mr. 
Morgan's Library, take for granted that any girl so 
fond of society, so fashionable in dress and appointments, and with such a comet's tail of admirers, must 
owe her position with its large salary to "pull," and 
that it is probably a sinecure anyway. 

Little they know. 

Belle Greene, who arrests even the casual if astute 
observer with her overflowing joie de vivre and impresses him as having the best of times in this best 
of all possible worlds, is perhaps the "keenest on her 
job" of any girl in the city of New York. Let any 
of these superficial admirers attempt to obtain entrance, if he can, to the Library, during the long hours 
of work, and with the natural masculine intention of 
clinching the favorable impression he made on the 
young lady the evening before, and he will depart in 
haste, moved to a higher admiration or cursing the 
well-known caprice of woman, according to his own 
equipment. 

For Miss Greene's determination to be one of the 
great librarians of the world took form within her 
precocious brain at the age of thirteen and it has never 
fluctuated since. Special studies during both school 
and recreation hours were pursued to the end in view : 
Latin, Greek, French, German, history — the rise and 
spread of civilization in particular, and as demon- 
strated by the Arts, Sciences, and Literature of the 



 

world. When she had absorbed all the schools could" 
give her, she took an apprenticeship in the Public 
Library system in order thoroughly to ground herself 
in the clerical and routine phases of the work. 

She took a special course in bibliography at the 
Amherst Summer Library School, and then entered 
the Princeton University Library on nominal pay at 
the foot of the ladder, and worked up through every 
department in order to perfect herself for the position 
of University Librarian. 

While at Princeton she decided to specialize in early 
printing, rare books, and historical and illuminated 
manuscripts. She Studied the history of printing from 
its inception in 1445 to the present day. It was after 
she had taken up the study of manuscripts from the 
standpoint of their contents that she found that it was 
next to impossible to progress further along that line 
in this country, as at that time we had neither the material nor the scholars. She has often expressed the 
wish that there had been in her day a Morgan Library 
for consultation. 

When she had finished the course at Princeton she 
went abroad and studied with the recognized authorities in England and Italy. Ten years, in fact, were 
spent in unceasing application, what the college boy 
calls "grind," without which Miss Greene is convinced 
it is impossible for any one to succeed in any vocation 
or attain a distinguished position. To all demands for 
advice her answer is, "Work, work, and more work." 

She took hold of the Morgan Library in its raw 



 

state, when the valuable books and MSS. Mr. Morgan 
