from place to place in a series of explosions ; the watchman, who 
had passed through the building only two minutes before, had 
rushed back and seen blazing gasoline, and had almost lost his 
life in the sweep of the flames. And next morning the Lees- 
ville "Herald" was out with letters half a foot high, telling these 
tales and insisting that the plant had been full of German agents, 
disguised as workingmen. 

Before the day was by the police had arrested a dozen per- 
fectly harmless German and Austrian labourers; at least that 
was the way it seemed to Jimmie, because of the fact that two 
of the men were members of the Socialist local. Somebody told 
Mrs. Meissner that all the Germans in Leesville were to be 
arrested, and the poor woman was trembling with terror. She 
wanted her husband to run away, but Jimmie persuaded them 
that this would be the worst possible course; so Meissner stayed 


in the house, and Jimmie kept his mouth shut for three whole 
days an extraordinary feat for him, and a trial more severe 
than being in jail. 

He had lost his job forever, he thought. But in this again 
he misjudged the forces which had taken his life in their grip 
the power of the gold which had come to Leesville by way of 
Eussia. The day after the fire he received word to report for 
work again ; old man Granitch was so anxious to keep his work- 
ers out of the clutches of the Hubbard Engine Company that 
he put them all, skilled and unskilled, at the job of clearing 
away the debris of the fire ! And five days later came the first 
carloads of new material, brought on motor-trucks, and the 
rebuilding of the Empire Shops began. Would you believe it 
some of the machinery which had not been damaged too much 
in the fire was fixed up, and at the end of a couple of weeks 
was starting up again, covered by a temporary canvas shelter, 
and with the walls of the new building rising round it. 

That was the kind of thing which made America the marvel 
of the world. It had made old man Granitch young again, peo- 
ple said ; he worked twenty hours a day in his shirt-sleeves, and 
the increase in his profanity was appalling. Even Lacey 
Granitch, his dashing son, quitted the bright lights of Broad- 
way and came home to help the old man keep his contracts. 
The enthusiasm for these contracts became as it were the re- 
ligion of Leesville ; it spread even to the ranks of labour, so that 
Jimmie found himself like a man in a surf, struggling to keep 
his feet against an undertow. 



II 

The plans for the "Worker" were delayed, for the reason 
that when Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker, went to look for 
Jerry Coleman the day after the fire, that dispenser of ten dollar 
bills had mysteriously disappeared. It was a week before he 
showed up again; and meantime fresh events had taken place, 
both in the local and outside. To begin with the latter, as 
presumably the more important : an English passenger liner, the 
pride of the Atlantic fleet, loaded to the last cabin with Ameri- 
can millionaires, was torpedoed without warning by a German 
submarine. More than a thousand men, women and children 
went down, and the deed sent a shudder of horror through the 



 

civilised world. At the meeting of Local Leesville, which hap- 
pened to take place the evening afterward, it proved a difficult 
matter to get business started. 

The members stood about and argued. What could you say 
about a government that ordered a crime like that ? What could 
you say about a naval officer who would carry out such an order ? 
Thus Comrade Norwood, the young lawyer; and Schneider, the 
brewer, answered that the German government had done every- 
thing that any reasonable man could ask. It had published a 
notice in the New York papers, to the effect that the vessel was 
subject to attack, and that any one who travelled on her would 
do so at his peril. If women and children would ride on muni- 
tion-ships 

"Munition-ships?" cried Norwood; and then Schneider 
pointed to a news-despatch, to the effect that the Lwitania had 
had on board a shipment of cartridge-cases. 

"A fine lot of munitions I" jeered the lawyer. 
Well, was the reply, what were cartridge-cases for, if not to 
kill Germans? The Germans had been attacked by the whole 
world, and they had to defend themselves. When you looked 
at Comrade Schneider, you saw a man who felt himself attacked 
by the whole world ; his face was red up to the roots of his hair, 
and he was ready to defend himself with any weapon he could 
get hold of. 

Comrade Koeln, a big glass-blower, broke into the discus- 
sion. The German government was authority for the statement 
that the Lusitania had been armed with guns. And when 
Norwood hooted at this, every German in the room was up 
in arms. What did he have to disprove it? The word of the 
British government ! Was not "perfidious Albion" a bye-word I 

"The thing that beats me," declared the young lawyer, "is 
the way you Germans stand up for the Kaiser now, when before 
the war you couldn't find enough bad things to say about him." 

"What beats me," countered Schneider, "is how you Ameri- 
cans stand up for King George. Every newspaper in Wall 
Street howling for America to go into the war yust because 
some millionaires got killed !" 

"You don't seem to realise that the greater number of the 
men who lost their lives on that ship were workingmen !" 

"Ho! Ho!" hooted Comrade Stankewitz. "Vail Street 
loves so the vorkingmen !" 





Comrade Mary Allen, who loved all men, took up the argu- 
ment. If those workingmen had been killed in a mine disaster, 
caused by criminal carelessness and greed for profits; if they 
had died of some industrial disease which might easily have been 
prevented; if they had been burned in a factory without fire- 
escapes nobody in Wall Street would have wanted to go to war. 
And, of course, every Socialist considered this was true; every 
Socialist saw quite clearly that the enormity of the Lusitania 
sinking lay in the fact that it had reached and injured the privi- 
leged people, the people who counted, who got their names in 
the papers and were not supposed to be inconvenienced, even by 
war. So it was possible for Jimmie Higgins, even though 
shocked by what the Germans had done, to be irritated by the 
fuss which the Wall Street newspapers made. 

Young Emil Forster spoke, and they listened to him, as they 
always did. It was a quarrel, he said and as usual in quarrels, 
both sides had their rights and wrongs. You had to balance a 
few English and American babies against the millions of Ger- 
man babies which the British government intended to starve. 
It was British sea-power maintaining itself and of course con- 
trolling most of the channels of publicity. It appealed to what 
it called "law" that is to say, the customs it had found con- 
venient in the past. British cruisers were able to visit and search 
vessels, and to take off their crews; but submarines could not 
do that, so what the British clamour about "law" amounted to 
was an attempt to keep Germany from using her only weapon. 
After all, ask yourself honestly if it was any worse to drown peo- 
ple quickly than to starve them slowly. 

And then came "Wild Bill." This wrangling over German 
and British gave him a pain in the guts. Couldn't they see, 
the big stiffs, that they were playing the masters' game ? Quar- 
relling among themselves, when they ought to be waking up 
the workers, getting ready for the real fight. And wizened-up 
little Stankewitz broke in again that vas vy he hated var, it 
divided the vorkers. There vas nothing you could say for 
var. But "Wild Bill" smiled his crooked smile. There were 
several things you could say. War gave the workers guns, and 
taught them to use them; how would it be if some day they 
turned these guns about and fought their own battles? 



 



Comrade Gerrity now took the chair and made an effort to 
get things started. The minutes of the last meeting were read-, 
new members were voted on, and then Comrade Mary Allen rose 
to report for the "Worker" committee. The fund had been com- 
pleted, the first number of the paper was to appear next week, 
and it was now up to every member of the local to get up on 
his toes and hustle as never in his life before. Comrade Mary, 
with her thin, eager face of a religious zealot, made every one 
share her fervour. 

All save Lawyer Norwood. Since the retirement of Dr. 
Service he was the chief pro-ally trouble-maker, and he now 
made a little speech. He had been agreeably surprised to learn 
that the money had been raised so quickly ; but then certain un- 
comfortable doubts having occurred to him, he had made in- 
quiries and found there was some mystery about the matter. It 
was stated that the new paper was to demand a general strike 
in the Empire ; and of course everybody knew there were power- 
ful and sinister forces now interested in promoting strikes in 
munition-factories. 

"Wild Bill" was on his feet in an instant. Had the com- 
rade any objection to munition-workers demanding the eight 
hour day? 

"No," said Norward, "of course not ; but if we are going into 
a fight with other people, we surely ought to know who they 
are and what their purpose is. I have been informed there 
seems to be a little hesitation in talking about it that a lot of 
money has been put up by one man, and nobody knows who 
that man is." 

"He's an organiser for the A. F. of L. !" The voice was 
Jimmie's. In his excitement the solemn pledge of secrecy was 
entirely forgotten ! 

"Indeed!" said Norward. "What is his name?" 

Nobody answered. 

"Has he shown his credentials ?" Again silence. 

"Of course I don't need to tell men as familiar with union 
affairs as the comrades here that every bona-fide organiser for 
a union carries credentials. If he does not produce them, it is 
at least occasion for writing to the organisation and finding out 
about him. Has anybody done that?" 



Again there was silence. 

"I don't want to make charges," said Norwood 

"Oh, no !" put in "Wild Bill." "You only want to make 
insinuations I" 

"What I want to do is merely to make sure that the local 
knows what it is doing. It is no secret anywhere in Leesville 
that money is being spent to cause trouble in the Empire. No 
doubt this money has passed through a great many hands since 
it left the Kaiser's, but we may be sure that his hands are guid- 
ing it to its final end." 

And then what an uproar ! "Shame ! Shame !" cried some ; 
and others cried, "Bring your proofs!" The "wild" members 
shouted, "Put him out !" They had long wanted to get rid of 
Norwood, and this looked to be their chance. 

But the young lawyer stood his ground and gave them shot 
for shot. They wanted proofs, did they? Suppose they had 
learned of a capitalist conspiracy to wreck the unions in the 
city ; and suppose that the Leesville "Herald" had been clamour- 
ing for "proofs" what would they have thought ? 

"In other words," shouted Schneider, "you know it's true, 
yust because it's Yermany !" 

"I know it's true," said Norwood, "because it would help 
Germany to win the war. One doesn't have to have any other 
evidence if a certain thing will help Germany to win the war, 
one knows that thing is being done. All you Germans know 
that, and what's more, you're proud of it; it's your efficiency, 
that you boast." 

Again there was a cry of "Shame! Shame!" But the cry 
came from Comrade Mary, the Quaker lady, and it was evident 
that she had expected a chorus, and was disconcerted at being 
alone. 

Young Norwood, who knew his Germans, laughed scornfully. 
"Just now your government is selling bonds in America, sup- 
posed to be for the benefit of the families of the dead and 
wounded. Some of those bonds have been taken in this city, 
as I happen to know. Does anybody really believe the money 
will reach the families of the dead and wounded ?" 

This time the Germans answered. "I belief it!" roared 
omrade Koeln. "And I ! And I !" shouted others. 

"That money is staying right here in Leesville !" proclaimed 
the lawyer. "It is preparing a strike in the Empire!" 




A dozen men wanted the floor at once. Schneider, the 
brewer, got it, for the reason that he could outbellow any one 
else. "What does the comrade want?" he demanded. "Is he 
not for the eight hour day?" 

"Has he got any of old man Graniteh's money?" shrilled 
"Wild Bill." "Or maybe he doesn't know that Granitch is 
spending money to get smart young lawyers to help keep his 
munition-slaves at work ?" 



IV 

Norwood, having thrown the fat into the fire, sat down for 
a while and let it blaze. When the Germans taunted him with 
being afraid to say what he really meant that the local should 
oppose the demand for the eight hour day he merely laughed 
at them. He had wanted to make them show themselves up, and 
he had done it. Not merely were they willing to do the work 
of the Kaiser- they were willing to take the Kaiser's pay for 
doing it! 

"Take his pay?" cried "Wild Bill." "I'd take the devil's 
pay to carry on Socialist propaganda !" 

Old Hermann Forster rose and spoke, in his gentle, senti- 
mental voice. If it were true that the Kaiser was paying money 
for such ends, he would surely find he had bought very little. 
There were Socialists in Germany, one must remember 

And then came a shrill laugh. Those tame German Social- 
ists ! It was Comrade Claudel, a Belgian jeweller, who spoke. 
Would any rabbit be afraid of such revolutionists as them ? Eat- 
ing out of the Kaiser's hand having their papers distributed 
in the trenches for government propaganda ! Talk to a Belgian 
about German Socialists! 

So you saw the European national lines splitting Local 
Leesville in two : on the one side the Germans and the Austrians, 
the Eussian Jews, the Irish and the religious pacifists; on the 
other side two English glass-blowers, a French waiter, and sev- 
eral Americans who, because of college-education or other snob- 
bish weakness, were suspected of tenderness for John Bull. Be- 
tween these extreme factions stood the bulk of the membership, 
listening bewildered, trying to grope their way through the 
labyrinth. 

It was no easy job for these plain fellows, the Jimmie Hig- 





genses. When they tried to think the matter out, they were 
almost brought to despair. There were so many sides to the 
question the last fellow you met always had a better argument 
than any one you had heard before! You sympathised with 
Belgium and France, of course; but could you help hating the 
British ruling classes? They were your hereditary enemies 
your school-book enemies, so to speak. And they were the ones 
you knew most about; since every American jack-ass that got 
rich quick and wanted to set himself up above his fellows would 
proceed to get English clothes and English servants and Eng- 
lish bad manners. To the average plain American, the word 
English stood for privilege, for ruling class culture, the things 
established, the things against which he was in rebellion; Ger- 
many was the I. W. W. among the nations the fellow who had 
never got a chance and was now hitting out for it. Moreover, 
the Germans were efficient; they took the trouble to put their 
case before you, they cared what you thought about them; 
whereas the Englishman, damn him, turned up his snobbish 
nose, not caring a whoop what you or anybody might think. 

Moreover, in this controversy the force of inertia was on the 
German side, and inertia is a powerful force in any organisa- 
tion. What the Germans wanted of American Socialists was 
simply that they should go on doing what they had been doing 
all their lives. And the Socialist machine had been set up 
for the purpose of going on, regardless of all the powers on 
earth, in the heavens above the earth, or in hell beneath. Ask 
Jimmie Higgins to stop demanding higher wages and the eight 
hour day ! Wouldn't anybody in his senses know what Jimmie 
would answer to that proposition ? Go chase yourself ! 



But, on the other hand, it must be admitted that Jimmie was 
staggered by the idea that he might be getting into the pay 
of the Kaiser. It was true that the traditions of the Socialist 
movement were German traditions, but they were German anti- 
Government traditions: Jimmie regarded the Kaiser as the 
devil incarnate, and the bare idea of doing anything the Kaiser 
wanted done was enough to make him stop short. He could 
see also what a bad thing it would be for the movement to 
have any person believe that it was taking the Kaiser's money. 




Suppose, for example, that a report of this evening's discussion 
should reach the "Herald"! And with the public inflamed to 
madness over the Lusitania affair ! 

After the discussion had proceeded for an hour or so, Nor- 
wood made a motion to the effect that the "Worker" committee 
should be instructed to investigate thoroughly the sources of 
all funds contributed, and to reject any that did not come from 
Socialists, or those in sympathy with Socialism. The common- 
sense of the meeting asserted itself, and even the Germans voted 
for this motion. Sure, .let them go ahead and investigate ! The 
Socialist movement was clean, it had always been clean, it had 
nothing to conceal from anyone. 

But then came another controversy. Claudel moved that 
Norwood should be made a member of the committee; and 
this, of course, was bitterly opposed by the radicals. It was 
an insult to the integrity of the committee. Then, too, sug- 
gested Baggs, an Englishman, perhaps Norwood might really 
find out something! The Jimmie Higginses voted down the 
motion not because they feared any disclosures, but because 
they felt that a quiet, sensible fellow like Gerrity, their organ- 
iser, might be trusted to protect the good faith of the movement, 
and without antagonising anybody or making a fuss. 

The investigation took place, and the result of it was that 
the money which Jerry Coleman had contributed for the 
"Worker" was quietly returned to him. But the difference was 
at once made up by the Germans in the local, who regarded the 
whole thing as a put-up job, an effort to block the agitation for 
a strike. These comrades took no stock whatever in the talk 
about "German gold"; but on the other hand they were keenly 
on the alert for the influence of Russian gold, which they knew 
was being openly distributed by old Abel Granitch. And so they 
put their hands down into their pockets and dug out their 
scanty wages, so that the demand for social justice might be 
kept alive in Leesville. 

The upshot of the whole episode was that the local rejected 
the Kaiser's pay, but went on doing what the Kaiser wanted 
without pay. This could hardly be considered a satisfactory 
solution, but it was the best that Jimmie Higgins was able 
to work out at this time. 




The first issue of the "Worker" appeared, with Jack Smith's 
editorial spread over the front page, calling upon the workers 
of the Empire to take this occasion to organise and demand 
their rights. "Eight hours for work, eight hours for sleep, 
eight hours for play!" proclaimed Comrade Jack; and the 
"Herald" and the "Courier," stung to a frenzy by the appear- 
ance of a poacher on their journalistic preserves, answered with 
broadsides about "German propaganda." The "Herald" got the 
story of what had happened in the local; also it printed a pic- 
ture of "Wild Bill' and an interview with that terror of the 
West, who declared that he was for war on the capitalist class 
with the aid of any and every ally that came along even to 
the extent of emery powder in ball-bearings and copper nails 
driven into fruit trees. 

The "Herald" charged that the attitude of the Socialists 
toward "tainted wealth" was all a sham. What had happened 
was simply that the German members of the local were getting 
German money, and making it "Socialist money" by the simple 
device of passing it through their consecrated hands. As this 
had been hinted by Norwood in the local, the German comrades 
now charged that Norwood had betrayed the movement to the 
capitalist press. And so came another bitter controversy in 
the local. The young lawyer laughed at the charge. Did they 
really believe they could take German money in Leesville, and 
not have the fact become known ? 

"Then you think we are taking German money?" roared 
Schneider; and he clamoured furiously for an answer. The 
other would not answer directly, but he told them a little parable. 
He saw a tree, sending down its roots into the ground, spreading 
everywhere, each tiny rootlet constructed for the purpose of 
absorbing water. And on the top of the ground was a man with 
a supply of water, which he poured out; he poured and poured 
without stint, and the water seeped down toward the rootlets, 
and every rootlet was reaching for water, pushing toward the 
places where water was likely to be. "And now," said Nor- 
wood, "you ask me do I believe that tree has been getting any 
of that water?" 

And here, of course, was the basis of a bitter quarrel. The 
hot-heads would not listen to subtle distinctions ; they declared 



that Norwood was accusing the movement of corruption, he was 
making out his anti-war opponents to be villains ! He was pro- 
viding the capitalist press with ammunition. For shame! for 
shame! "He's a stool-pigeon!" shrieked "Wild Bill." "Put 
him out, the Judas !" 

The average member of the local, the perfectly sincere fel- 
low like Jimmie Higgins, who was wearing himself out, half 
starving himself, in the effort to bring enlightenment to his 
class, listened to these controversies with bewildered distress. 
He saw them as echoes of the terrible national hatreds which 
were rending Europe, and he resented having these old world 
disputes thrust into American industrial life. Why could he 
not go on with his duty of leading the American workers into 
the co-operative commonwealth? 

Because, answered the Germans, old man Granitch wanted 
to keep the American workers as munition-slaves; and to this 
idea the overwhelming percentage of the membership agreed. 
They were not pacifists, non-resistants ; they were perfectly will- 
ing to fight the battles of the working-class ; what they objected 
to was having to fight the battles of the master-class. They 
wanted to go on, as they had always gone, opposing the master- 
class and paying no heed to talk about German agents. Jimmie 
Higgins believed and in this belief he was perfectly correct 
that even had there been no German agents, the capitalist papers 
of Leesville would have invented them, as a means of discredit- 
ing the agitators in this crisis. Jimmie Higgins had lived all his 
life in a country in which his masters starved and oppressed him, 
and when he tried to help himself, met him with every weapon 
of treachery and slander. So Jimmie had made up his mind 
that one capitalist country was the same as another capitalist 
country, and that he would not be frightened into submission 
by tales about goblins and witches and sea-serpents and German 
spies. 





"CVEEY evening now the party held its "soap-box" meetings 
-- J on a corner just off Main Street. Jimmie, having volun- 
teered as one of the assistants, would bolt his supper in the 
evening and hurry off to the spot. He was not one of the 
speakers, of course he would have been terrified at the idea 
of making a speech; but he was one of those whose labours 
made the speaking possible, and who reaped the harvest for 
the movement. 

The apparatus of the meeting was kept in the shop of a 
friendly carpenter nearby. The carpenter had made a "soap- 
box" that was a wonder a platform mounted upon four slender 
legs, detachable, so that one man could carry the whole business 
and set it up. Thus the speaker was lifted a couple of feet 
above the heads of the crowd, and provided with a hand-rail upon 
which he might lean, and even pound, if He did not pound too 
hard. A kerosene torch burned some distance from his head, 
illuminating his features, and it was Jimmie's business to see that 
this torch was properly cleaned and filled, and to hold it erect on 
a pole part of the time. The rest of the time he peddled litera- 
ture among the crowd copies of the Leesville "Worker," and 
five and ten cent pamphlets supplied by the National Office. 

He would come home at night, worn out from these labours 
after his daily toil ; he would fall asleep at Lizzie's side, and have 
to be routed out by her when the alarm-clock went off next 
morning. She would get him a cup of hot coffee, and after he 
had drunk this, he would be himself again, and would chatter 
about the adventures of the night before. There was always 
something happening, a fellow starting a controversy, a drunken 
man, or perhaps a couple of thugs in the pay of old man Gran- 
itch, trying to break up the meeting. 

Lizzie would do her best to show that sympathy with her 



husband's activities which is expected from a dutiful wife. 
But all the time there was grief in her soul the eternal grief 
of the feminine temperament, which is cautious and conserva- 
tive, in conflict with the masculine, which is adventurous and 
destructive. Here was Jimmie, earning twice what he had ever 
earned before, having a chance to feed his children properly and 
to put by a little margin for the first time in his harassed life; 
but instead of making the most of the opportunity, he was going 
out on the streets every night, doing everything in his power to 
destroy the golden occasion which fate had brought to him! 
Like the fellow who climbs a tree to saw off a limb, and sits on 
the limb and saws between himself and the tree ! 

In spite of her best efforts, Lizzie's broad, kindly face would 
sometimes become hard with disappointment, and a big tear 
would roll down each of her sturdy cheeks. Jimmie would be 
sorry for her, and would patiently try to explain his actions. 
Should a man think only of his own wife and children, and for- 
get entirely all the other wives and children of the working- 
class? That was why the workers had been slaves all through 
the ages, because each thought of himself, and never of his 
fellows. No, you must think of your class I You must act as 
a class on the alert to seize every advantage, to teach solidarity 
and stimulate class-consciousness ! Jimmie would use these 
long words, which he had heard at meetings; but then, seeing 
that Lizzie did not understand them, he would go back and say 
it over again in words of one syllable. They had old man 
Granitch in a hole just now, and they must teach him a lesson, 
and at the same time teach the workers their power. Lizzie 
would sigh, and shake her head; for to her, old man Granitch 
was not a human being, but a natural phenomenon, like winter, 
or hunger. He, or some other like him, had been the master 
of her fathers for generations untold, and to try to break or 
even to limit his power was like commanding the tide or the 
sun. 

II 

Events moved quickly to their culmination, justifying the 
worst of Lizzie's fears. The shops were seething with discon- 
tent, and agitators seemed fairly to spring out of the ground; 
some of them paid by Jerry Coleman, no doubt, others taking 





their pay in the form of gratification of those grudges with 
which the profit-system had filled their hearts. Noon-meetings 
would start up, quite spontaneously, without any prearrange- 
ment ; and presently Jimmie learned that men were going about 
taking the names of all who would agree to strike. 

The matter was brought to a head by the Empire managers, 
who, of course, were kept informed by their spies. They dis- 
charged more than a score of the trouble-makers ; and when this 
news spread at noon-time, the whole place burst into a flame of 
wrath. "Strike ! strike !" was the cry. Jimmie was one of many 
who started a procession through the yards, shouting, singing, 
hurling menaces at the bosses, challenging all who proposed 
to return to work. Less than one-tenth of the working force 
made any attempt to do so, and for that afternoon the plant of 
the Empire Machine Shops, which was supposed to be turning 
out shell-casings for the Russian government, was turning out 
labour-union, Socialist, and I. W. W. oratory. 

Jimmie Higgins was beside himself with excitement. He 
danced about and waved his cap, he shouted himself hoarse, he 
almost yielded to the impulse to jump upon a pile of lumber 
and make a speech himself. Presently came Comrades Gerrity 
and Mary Allen, who had got wind of the trouble, and had 
loaded a whole edition of the "Worker" into a Ford ; so Jimmie 
turned newsboy, selling these papers, hundreds of them, until 
his pockets were bursting with the weight of pennies and 
nickels. And then he was pressed into service running errands 
for those who were arranging to organise the workers; he car- 
ried bundles of membership-cards and application-blanks, fol- 
lowing a man with a bull voice and a megaphone, who shouted 
in several languages the location of union headquarters, and the 
halls where various foreign language meetings would be held 
that evening. Evidently some one had foreseen the breaking of 
this trouble, and had been at pains to plan ahead. 

Late in the afternoon Jimmie was witness of an exciting 
incident. In one of the shops a number of the men had per- 
sisted in returning to work, and an immense throng of strikers 
had gathered to wait for them. They were afraid to come out, 
but stayed in the building after the quitting-whistle, while 
those outside jeered and hooted, and the bosses telephoned fran- 
tically for aid. The greater part of the Leesville police-force 
was on hand, and in addition, the company had its own guards 



 

and private detectives. But they were needed all over the place. 
You saw them at the various entrances, menacing, but not quite 
so sure of themselves as usual; their hands had a tendency to 
slip back to the bulge on their right hips. 

Jimmie and another fellow had got themselves an empty 
box and were standing on it, leaning against the wall of the 
building and shouting "Ya! Ya!" at every "scab" head that 
showed itself. They saw an automobile come in at the gate, its 
horn honking savagely, causing the crowd to leap to one side or 
the other. The automobile was packed with men, sitting on 
one another's knees, or hanging to the running boards outside. 
There came a second car, loaded in the same fashion. They were 
guards, sent all the way from Hubbardtown; for of course the 
Hubbard Engine Company would help out its rivals in an 
emergency such as this. That was the solidarity of capitalism, 
concerning which the Socialists never wearied of preaching. 

The men leaped from the cars, and spread themselves fan- 
wise in front of the door. They had nightsticks in their hands, 
and grim resolution in their faces; they cried, "Stand back! 
Stand back!" The crowd hooted, but gave slightly, and a few 
minutes later the doors of the building opened, and the first of 
the timid workers emerged. There was a howl, and then from 
somewhere in the throng a stone was thrown. "Arrest that man I" 
shouted a voice, and Jimmie's attention was attracted to the 
owner of this voice a young man who had arrived in the first 
automobile, and was now standing up in the seat, from which 
position he could dominate the throng. "Arrest that man I" he 
shouted again, pointing his finger ; and three of the guards leaped 
into the crowd at the spot indicated. The man who had thrown 
the missile started to run, but he could not go fast in the crowd, 
and in a moment, as it seemed, the guards had him by the 
collar. He tried to jerk away, and they struck him over the 
head, and laid about them to keep the rest of the throng at bay. 
"Take him inside!" the young man in the car kept shouting. 
And one of the guards twisted his hand in the collar of the 
wretched stone-thrower, until he grew purple in the face, and so 
half dragged and half ran him into the building. 



The young man in the car turned toward the crowd which 
was blocking the way to the exit. "Get those men out of the 





way !" he yelled to the guards. "Drive them along God damn 
them, they've got no business in here. ' And so on, with a 
string of dynamic profanity, which stung both guards and 
policemen into action, and made them ply their clubs upon 
the crowd. 

"Do you know who that is?" asked Jimmie's companion on 
the box. "That's Lacey Granitch." 

Jimmie started, experiencing a thrill to the soles of his 
ragged shoes. Lacey Granitch ! In the four years that the little 
machinist had worked for the Empire, he had never caught a 
glimpse of the young lord of Leesville something which may 
easily be believed, for the young lord considered Leesville "a 
hole of a town," and honoured it with his presence only once or 
twice a year. But his spirit brooded over it ; he was to Leesville 
a mythological figure, either of wonder and awe, or of horror, 
according to the temperament of the contemplator. One day 
"Wild Bill" had arisen in the local, and held aloft a page from 
the "magazine supplement" of one of the metropolitan "yellows." 
There was an account of how Lacey Granitch had broken the 
hearts of seven chorus-girls by running away with an eighth. 
He fairly "ate 'em alive," according to the account; in order 
to give an idea of the atmosphere in which the young hero 
abode, the whirl of delight which was his life, the artist of the 
Sunday supplement had woven round the border of the page 
a maze of feminine ankles and calves in a delirium of lingerie; 
while at the top was a supper-table with champagne-corks pop- 
ping, and a lady clad in inadequate veils dancing amid the 
dishes. 

This had happened while the local was in the midst of an 
acrimonious controversy over "Section Six." Should the Social- 
ist party bar from its membership those who advocated sabotage, 
violence and crime? Young Norwood was pleading for orderly 
methods of social reconstruction; and here stood "Wild Bill," 
ripping to shreds the reputation of the young plutocrat of the 
Empire Shops. "That's what you geezers are sweating for! 
That's why you've got to be good, and not throw monkey- 
wrenches in the machinery so the seven broken-hearted chorus- 
girls can drown their sorrows in champagne!" 

And now here was the hero of all these . romantic escapades, 
forsaking the white lights of Broadway, and coming home to 
help the old man keep his contracts. He stood in the seat of the 



 

automobile, glancing this way and that, swiftly, like a hunter 
on the alert for dangerous game. His dark eyes roamed here 
and there, his proud face was pale with anger, his tall, perfectly 
groomed figure was eloquent of mastership, of command. He 
was imperious as a young Caesar, terrible in his vengeance ; and 
poor Jimmie, watching him, was torn between two contradic- 
tory emotions. He hated him hated him with a deadly and 
abiding hatred. But also he admired him, marvelled at him, 
cringed before him. Lacey was a wanton, a cursing tyrant, a 
brutal snob; but also he was the master, the conqueror, the 
proud, free, rich young aristocrat, for whom all the rest of 
humanity existed. And Jimmie Higgins was a poor little worm 
of a proletarian, with nothing but his labour-power to sell, try- 
ing by sheer force of his will to lift himself out of his slave- 
psychology ! 

There is an old adage that "a cat may look at a king." But 
this can only have been meant to apply to house-cats, cats of the 
palace, accustomed to the etiquette of courts; it cannot have 
been meant for proletarian cats of the gutter, the Jimmie 
Higgins variety of red revolutionary yowlers. Jimmie and his 
companion stood on their perch, shouting "Ya I Ya !" and sud- 
denly the crowd melted away in front of them, exposing them 
to the angry finger of the young master. "Get along now ! Beat 
it ! Quick !" And Jimmie, poor little ragged, stunted Jimmie, 
with bad teeth and toil-deformed hands, wilted before this blast 
of aristocratic wrath, and made haste to hide himself in the 
throng. But it was with blazing soul that he went; every 
instant he imagined himself turning back, defying the angry 
finger, shouting down the imperious voice, even smashing it back 
into the throat from which it came! 



IV 

Jimmie did not even stop for supper. The greater part of 
the night he worked at helping to organise the strikers, and 
all next day he spent arranging Socialist meetings. He 
worked like a man possessed, lifted above the limitations of 
the flesh. For everywhere that day he carried with him the 
image of the proud, free, rich young aristocrat, with his dark 
eyes roaming swiftly, his tall, perfectly groomed figure eloquent 
of mastership, his voice ringing with challenge. Jimmie was 





for the time utterly possessed by hatred ; and he saw about him 
thousands of others sharing the mood and shouting it aloud. 
Every speaker who could be found was turned loose to talk 
till he was hoarse, and in the evening there were to be half a 
dozen street meetings. That was always the way when there 
were strikes ; then the working-man had time to listen and also 
the desire! 

So came the final crisis, when the little machinist had to show 
the stuff he was made of. He was holding aloft the torch at 
the regular meeting-place on the corner of Main and Third 
