Anglo-Saxon tongue is heard here, unashamed. What will you? It is art!
It is the fervour that forgets itself in blind devotion--in rapturous
self-dedication to the god of Truth and Beauty!"
As she turned away, she heard from a neighbouring partition the hoarse
expostulations of one of Art's blind acolytes: "Say, f'r Christ's
sake, Delmour, what the hell's loose in your bean! Yeh done it wrong
an' yeh know damn well yeh done it wrong----"
Puma opened another door: "One of our projection rooms, Miss Dumont.
If it is your pleasure to see a few reels run off----"
"Thank you, but I really must go----"
The office door stood open and she went out that way. Mr. Puma
confronted her, moistly brilliant of eye:
"For me, Miss Dumont, I am frank like there never was a child in arms!
Yes. I am all art; all heart. For me, beauty is God!--" he kissed his
fat fingers and wafted the caress toward the dirty ceiling.
"Please excuse," he said with his powerful smile, "but have you ever,
perhaps, thought, Miss Dumont, of the screen as a career?"
"I?" asked Palla, surprised and amused. "No, Mr. Puma, I haven't."
"A test! Possibly, in you, latent, sleeps the exquisite apotheosis of
Art incarnate! Who can tell? You have youth, beauty, a mind! Yes. Who
knows if, also, happily, genius slumbers within? Yes?"
"I'm very sure it doesn't," replied Palla, laughing.
"Ah! Who can be sure of anything--even of heaven!" cried Puma.
"Very true," said Palla, trying to speak seriously, "But the career of
a moving picture actress does not attract me."
"The emoluments are enormous!"
"Thank you, no----"
"A test! We try! It would be amusing for you to see yourself upon the
screen as you are, Miss Dumont? As you are--young, beautiful,
vivacious----"
He still blocked her way, so she said, laying her gloved hand on the
knob:
"Thank you very much. Some day, perhaps. But I really must go----"
He immediately bowed, opened the glass door, and went with her to the
brick arch.
"I do not think you know," he said, "that I have entered partnership
with a friend of yours?"
"A friend of mine?"
"Mr. Elmer Skidder."
"Oh," she exclaimed, smilingly, "I hope the partnership will be a
fortunate one. Will you kindly inform Mr. Skidder of my congratulations
and best wishes for his prosperity? And you may say that I shall be
glad to hear from him about his new enterprise."
To Mr. Puma's elaborate leave-taking she vouchsafed a quick, amused
nod, then hurried away eastward to keep her appointment at the
Canteen.
                  *       *       *       *       *
About five o'clock she experienced a healthy inclination for tea and
wavered between the Plaza and home. Ilse and Marya were with her, but
an indefinable something caused her to hesitate, and finally to let
them go to the Plaza without her.
What might be the reason of this sudden whim for an unpremeditated cup
of tea at home she scarcely took the trouble to analyse. Yet, she was
becoming conscious of a subtle and increasing exhilaration as she
approached her house and mounted the steps.
Suddenly, as she fitted the latch-key, her heart leaped and she knew
why she had come home.
For a moment her fast pulse almost suffocated her. Was she mad to
return here on the wildest chance that Jim might have come--might be
inside, waiting? And what in the world made her suppose so?--for she
had neither seen him nor heard from him in many days.
"I'm certainly a little crazy," she thought as she opened the door. At
the same moment her eyes fell on his overcoat and hat and stick.
Her skirt was rather tight, but her limbs were supple and her feet
light, and she ran upstairs to the living room.
As he rose from an armchair she flung her arms out with a joyous
little cry and wrapped them tightly around his neck, muff, reticule
and all.
"You darling," he was saying over and over in a happy but rather
stupid voice, and crushing her narrow hands between his; "--you
adorable child, you wonderful girl----"
"Oh, I'm so glad, Jim! Shall we have tea?... You dear fellow! I'm so
very happy that you came! Wait a moment--" she leaned wide from him
and touched an electric bell. "Now you'll have to behave properly,"
she said with delightful malice.
He released her; she spoke to the maid and then went over with him to
the sofa, flinging muff, stole and purse on a chair.
"Pure premonition," she explained, stripping the gloves from her
hands. "Ilse and Marya were all for the Plaza, but something sent me
homeward! Isn't it really very strange, Jim? Why, I almost had an
inclination to run when I turned into our street--not even knowing
why, of course----"
"You're so sweet and generous!" he blurted out. "Why don't you raise
hell with me?"
"You know," she said demurely, "I don't raise hell, dear."
"But I've behaved so rottenly----"
"It really wasn't friendly to neglect me so entirely."
He looked down--laid one hand on hers in silence.
"I understand, Jim," she said sweetly. "Is it all right now?"
"It's all right.... Of course I haven't changed."
"Oh."
"But it's all right."
"Really?"
"Yes.... What is there for me to do but to accept things as they
are?"
"You mean, 'accept me as I am!' Oh, Jim, it's so dear of you. And
you know well enough that I care for no other man as I do for
you----"
The waitress with the tea-tray cut short that sort of conversation.
Palla's appetite was a healthy one. She unpinned her hat and flung it
on the piano. Then she nestled down sideways on the sofa, one leg
tucked under the other knee, her hair in enough disorder to worry any
other girl--and began to tuck away tea and cakes. Sometimes, in
animated conversation, she gesticulated with a buttered bun--once she
waved her cup to emphasise her point:
"The main idea, of course, is to teach the eternal law of Love and
Service," she explained. "But, Jim, I have become recently, and in a
measure, militant."
"You're going to love the unwashed with a club?"
"You very impudent boy! We're going to combat this new and terrible
menace--this sinister flood that threatens the world--the crimson tide
of anarchy!"
"Good work, darling! I enlist for a machine gun uni----"
"Listen! The battle is to be entirely verbal. Our Combat Club No. 1,
the first to be established--is open to anybody and everybody. All are
at liberty to enter into the discussions. We who believe in the Law of
Love and Service shall have our say every evening that the club is
open----"
"The Reds may come and take a crack at you."
"The Reds are welcome. We wish to face them across the rostrum, not
across a barricade!"
"Well, you dear girl, I can't see how any Red is going to resist you.
And if any does, I'll knock his bally block off----"
"Oh, Jim, you're so vernacularly inclined! And you're very flippant,
too----"
"I'm not really," he said in a lower voice. "Whatever you care about
could not fail to appeal to me."
She gave him a quick, sweet glance, then searched the tea-tray to
reward him.
As she gave him another triangle of cinnamon toast, she remembered
something else. It was on the tip of her tongue, now; and she checked
herself.
He had not spoken of it. Had his mother mentioned meeting her at the
Red Cross? If not--was it merely a natural forgetfulness on his
mother's part? Was her silence significant?
Nibbling pensively at her cinnamon toast, Palla pondered this. But the
girl's mind worked too directly for concealment to come easy.
"I'm wondering," she said, "whether your mother mentioned our meeting
at the Red Cross." And she knew immediately by his expression that he
heard it for the first time.
"I was introduced at our headquarters by Leila Vance," said Palla, in
her even voice; "and your mother and she are acquaintances. That is
how it happened, Jim."
He was still somewhat flushed but he forced a smile: "Did you find my
mother agreeable, Palla?"
"Yes. And she is so beautiful with her young face and pretty white
hair. She always sits between Leila and me while we sew."
"Did you say you knew me?"
"Yes, of course."
"Of course," he repeated, reddening again.
No man ever has successfully divined any motive which any woman
desires to conceal.
Why his mother had not spoken of Palla to him he did not know. He was
aware, of course, that nobody within the circle into which he had been
born would tolerate Palla's social convictions. Had she casually and
candidly revealed a few of them to his mother in the course of the
morning's conversation over their sewing?
He gave Palla a quick look, encountered her slightly amused eyes, and
turned redder than ever.
"You dear boy," she said, smiling, "I don't think your very charming
mother would be interested in knowing me. The informality of
ultra-modern people could not appeal to her generation."
"Did you--talk to her about----"
"No. But it might happen. You know, Jim, I have nothing to conceal."
The old troubled look had come back into his face. She noticed it and
led the conversation to lighter themes.
"We danced last night after dinner," she said. "There were some
amusing people here for dinner. Then we went to see such a charming
play--Tea for Three--and then we had supper at the Biltmore and
danced.... Will you dine with me to-morrow?"
"Of course."
"Do you think you'd enjoy it?--a lot of people who entertain the same
shocking beliefs that I do?"
"All right!" he said with emphasis. "I'm through playing the rôle of
death's-head at the feast. I told you that I'm going to take you as
you are and enjoy you and our friends--and quit making an ass of
myself----"
"Dear, you never did!"
"Oh, yes, I did. And maybe I'm a predestined ass. But every ass has a
pair of heels and I'm going to flourish mine very gaily from now on!"
She protested laughingly at his self-characterisation, and bent toward
him a little, caressing his sleeve in appeal, or shaking it in
protest as he denounced himself and promised to take the world more
gaily in the future.
"You'll see," he remarked, rising to take his leave: "I may even call
the bluff of some of your fluffy ultra-modern friends and try a few
trial marriages with each of 'em----"
"Oh, Jim, you're absolutely horrid! As if my friends believed in such
disgusting ideas!"
"They do--some of 'em."
"They don't!"
"Well, then, I do!" he announced so gravely that she had to look at
him closely in the rather dim lamplight to see whether he was
jesting.
She walked to the top of the staircase with him; let him take her into
his arms; submitted to his kiss. Always a little confused by his
demonstrations, nevertheless her hand retained his for a second
longer, as though shyly reluctant to let him go.
"I am so glad you came," she said. "Don't neglect me any more."
And so he went his way.
                  *       *       *       *       *
His mother discovered him in the library, dressed for dinner.
Something, as he rose--his manner of looking at her, perhaps--warned
her that they were not perfectly en rapport. Then the subtle,
invisible antennæ, exploring caressingly what is so palpable in the
heart of man, told her that once more she was to deal with the girl in
black.
When his mother was seated, he said: "I didn't know you had met Palla
Dumont, mother."
Helen hesitated: "Mrs. Vance's friend? Oh, yes; she comes to the Red
Cross with Leila Vance."
"Do you like her?"
In her son's eyes she was aware of that subtle and unconscious appeal
which all mothers of boys are, some day, fated to see and understand.
Sometimes the appeal is disguised, sometimes it is so subtle that only
mothers are able to perceive it.
But what to do about it is the perennial problem. For between lack of
sympathy and response there are many nuances; and opposition is always
to be avoided.
Helen said, pleasantly, that the girl appeared to be amiable and
interesting.
"I know her merely in that way," she continued. "We sit there sewing
slings, pads, compresses, and bandages, and we gossip at random with
our neighbours."
"I like her very much," said Jim.
"She does seem to be an attractive girl," said his mother carelessly....
"Are you going to Yama Farms for the week end?"
"No."
"Oh, I'm sorry. The Speedwells' party is likely to be such a jolly
affair, and I hear there's lots of snow up there."
"I haven't met Mrs. Vance," said her son. "Is she nice?"
"Leila Vance? Why, of course."
"Who is she?"
"She married an embassy attaché, Captain Vance. He was in the old
army--killed at Mons four years ago."
"She and Palla are intimate?"
"I believe they are good friends," remarked his mother, deciding not
to attempt to turn the current of conversation for the moment.
"Mother?"
"Yes, dear."
"I am quite sure I never met a girl I like as well."
Helen laughed: "That is a trifle extravagant, isn't it?"
"No.... I asked her to marry me."
Helen's heart stood still, then a bright flush stained her face.
"She refused me," said the boy.
His mother said very quietly: "Of course this is news to us, Jim."
"Yes, I didn't tell you. I couldn't, somehow. But I've told you now."
"Dearest," she said, dropping her hand over his, "don't think me
unsympathetic if I say that it really is better that she refused
you."
"I understand, mother."
"I hope you do."
"Oh, yes. But I don't think you do. Because I am still in love with
her."
"You poor dear!"
"It's rotten luck, isn't it?"
"Time heals--" She checked herself, turned and kissed him.
"After all," she said, "a soldier learns how to take things."
And presently: "I do wish you'd go up to Yama Farms."
"That," he said, "would be the obvious thing to do. Anything to keep
going and keep your mind ticking away until you're safely wound up
again.... But I'm not going, dear."
Helen looked at him in silence, not wondering what he might be going
to do with his week-end instead, because she already guessed.
Before she said anything more his father came in; and a moment later
dinner was announced.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Jim slept soundly for the first night in a long time. His mother
scarcely closed her eyes at all.
CHAPTER XIV
There had been a row at the Red Flag Club--a matter of differing
opinions between members--nothing sufficient to attract the police,
but enough to break several heads, benches and windows. And it was
evident that some gentleman's damaged nose had bled all over the
linoleum in the lobby.
Elmer Skidder, arriving at the studio next morning in his brand new
limousine, heard about the shindy and went into the club to inspect
the wreckage. Then, mad all through, he started out to find Puma. But
a Sister Art had got the best of Angelo Puma in a questionable cabaret
the night before, and he had not yet arrived at the studio of the
Super-Picture Corporation.
Skidder, thrifty by every instinct, and now smarting under his wrongs
at the hands--and feet--of the Red Flag Club, went away in his
gorgeous limousine to find Sondheim, who paid the rental and who lived
in the Bronx.
It was a long way; every mile and every gallon of gasoline made
Skidder madder; and when at length he arrived at the brand new,
jerry-built apartment house inhabited by Max Sondheim, he had
concluded that the Red Flag Club was an undesirable tenant and that it
must be summarily kicked out.
Sondheim was still in bed, but a short-haired and pallid young woman,
with assorted spots on her complexion, bade Skidder enter, and opened
the chamber door for him.
The bedroom, which smelled of sour fish, was very cold, very dirty,
and very blue with cigar smoke. The remains of a delicatessen
breakfast stood on a table near the only window, which was tightly
shut, and under the sill of which a radiator emitted explosive
symptoms of steam to come.
Sondheim sprawled under the bed-covers, smoking; two other men sat on
the edge of the bed--Karl Kastner and Nathan Bromberg. Both were
smoking porcelain pipes. Three slopping quarts of beer decorated the
wash stand.
Skidder, who had halted in the doorway as the full aroma of the place
smote him, now entered at the curt suggestion of Sondheim, but refused
a chair.
"Say, Sondheim," he began, "I been to the club this morning, and I've
seen what you've done to the place."
"Well?" demanded Sondheim, in a growling voice, "what haf we done?"
"Oh, nothing;--smashed the furniture f'r instance. That's all. But it
don't go with me. See?"
Kastner got up and gave him a sinister, near-sighted look: "If ve done
damach ve pay," he remarked.
"Sure you'll pay!" blustered Skidder. "And that's all right, too. But
no more for yours truly. I'm through. Here's where your bunch quits
the hall for keeps. Get me?"
"Please?" inquired Kastner, turning a brick red.
"I say I'm through!" blustered Skidder. "You gotta get other quarters.
It don't pay us to keep on buying benches and mending windows, even if
you cough up for 'em. It don't pay us to rent the hall to your club
and get all this here notoriety, what with your red flags and the
po-lice hanging around and nosin' into everything----"
"Ach wass!" snapped Kastner, "of vat are you speaking? Iss it for you
to concern yourself mit our club und vat iss it ve do?"
"Say, who d'yeh think you're talkin' to?" retorted Skidder, his eyes
snapping furiously. "Grab this from me, old scout?--I'm half owner of
that hall and I'm telling you to get out! Is that plain?"
"So?" Kastner sneered at him and nudged Sondheim, who immediately sat
up in bed and levelled an unwashed hand at Skidder.
"You think you fire us?" he shouted, his eyes inflamed and his dirty
fingers crisping to a talon. "You go home and tell Puma what you say
to us. Then you learn something maybe, what you don't know already!"
"I'll learn you something!" retorted Skidder. "Just wait till I show
Puma the wreckage----"
"Let him look at it and be damned!" roared Bromberg. "Go home and show
it to him! And see if he talks about firing us!"
"Say," demanded Skidder, astonished, "do you fellows think you got any
drag with Angy Puma?"
"Go back and ask him!" growled Bromberg. "And don't try to come around
here and get fresh again. Listen! You go buy what benches you say we
broke and send the bill to me, and keep your mouth shut and mind your
fool business!"
"I'll mind my own and yours too!" screamed Skidder, seized by an
ungovernable access of fury. "Say, you poor nut!--you sick mink!--you
stale hunk of cheese!--if you come down my way again I'll kick your
shirttail for you! Get that?" And he slammed the door and strode out
in a flaming rage.
But when, still furiously excited, he arrived once more at the
office,--and when Puma, who had just entered, had listened in sullen
consternation to his story, he received another amazing and most
unpleasant shock. For Puma told him flatly that the tenancy of the Red
Flag Club suited him; that no lease could be broken, except by mutual
consent of partners; and that he, Skidder, had had no business to go
to Sondheim with any such threat of eviction unless he had first
consulted his partner's wishes.
"Well, what--what--" stammered Skidder--"what the hell drag have those
guys got with you?"
"Why is it you talk foolish?" retorted Puma sharply. "Drag? Did
Sondheim say----"
"No! I say it. I ask you what have those crazy nuts got on you that
you stand for all this rumpus?"
Puma's lustrous eyes, battered but still magnificent, fixed themselves
on Skidder.
"Go out," he said briefly to his stenographer. Then, when the girl had
gone, and the glass door closed behind her, he turned heavily and
gazed at Skidder some more. And, after a few moments' silence: "Go
on," he said. "What did Sondheim say about me?"
Skidder's small, shifty eyes were blinking furiously and his
essentially suspicious mind was also operating at full speed. When he
had calculated what to say he took the chance, and said:
"Sondheim gave me to understand that he's got such a hell of a pull
with you that I can't kick him out of my property. What do you know
about that, Angelo?"
"Go on," said Puma impatiently, "what else did he say about me?"
"Ain't I telling you?"
"Tell more."
Skidder had no more to tell, so he manufactured more.
"Well," he continued craftily, "I didn't exactly get what that kike
said." But his grin and his manner gave his words the lie, as he
intended they should. "Something about your being in dutch--" He
checked himself as Puma's black eyes lighted with a momentary glare.
"What? He tells you I am in with Germans!"
"Naw;--in dutch!"
Puma's sanguinary skin reddened; his puffy fingers fished for a cigar
in the pocket of his fancy waistcoat; he found one and lighted it, not
looking at his partner. Then he picked up the morning paper.
Skidder shrugged; stood up, pretending to yawn; started to open the
door.
"Elmer?"
"Yeh? What y'want?"
"I want to know exactly what Max Sondheim said to you about me."
"Well, you better go ask Sondheim."
"No. I ask you--my friend--my associate in business----"
"A fine associate!--when I can't kick in when I want to kick out a
bunch of nuts that's wrecking the hall, just because they got a drag
with you----"
"Listen. I am frank like there never was a----"
"Sure. Go on!"
"I say it! Yes! I am frank like hell. From my friend and partner I
conceal nothing----"
"Not even the books," grinned Skidder.
"Elmer. You pain me. I who am all heart! Elmer, I ask it of you if you
will so kindly tell me what it is that Sondheim has said to you about
this 'drag.'"
"He said," replied the other viciously, "that he had you cinched. He
said you'd hand me the ha-ha when I saw you. And you've done it."
"Pardon. I did not say to you a ha-ha, Elmer. I was surprised when you
have told me how you have gone to Sondheim so roughly, without one
word to me----"
"You was soused to the gills last night. I didn't know when you'd show
up at the studio----"
"It was not just to me that you go to Sondheim in this so surprising
manner, without informing me." He looked at his cigar; the wrapper was
broken and he licked the place with a fat tongue. "Elmer?"
"That's me," replied the other, who had been slyly watching him. "Spit
it out, Angy. What's on your mind?"
"I tell you, Elmer!"
Puma's face became suddenly wreathed in guileless smiles: "Me, I am
frank like there never--but no matter," he added; "listen attentively
to what I shall say to you secretly, that I also desire to be rid of
this Red Flag Club."
"Well, then----"
"A moment! I am embarrass. Yes. You ask why? I shall tell you. It is
this. Formerly I have reside in Mexico. My business has been in Mexico
City. I have there a little cinema theatre. In 1913 I arrive in New
York. You ask me why I came? And I am frank like--" his full smile
burst on Skidder--"like a heaven angel! But it is God's truth I came
here to make of the cinema a monument to Art."
"And make your little pile too, eh, Angy?"
"As you please. But this I affirm to you, Elmer; of politics I am
innocent like there never was a cherubim! Yes! And yet your Government
has question me. Why? you ask so naturally. My God! I know no one in
New York. I arrive. I repair to a recommended hotel. I make
acquaintance--unhappily--with people who are under a suspicion of
German sympathy!"
"What the devil did you do that for?" demanded Skidder.
Puma spread his jewelled fingers helplessly.
"How am I to know? I encounter people. I seek capital for my art. Me,
I am all heart: I suspect nobody. I say: 'Gentlemen, my art is my
life. Without it I cease to exist. I desire capital; I desire
sympathy; I desire intelligent recognition and practical aid.' Yes. In
time some gentlemen evince confidence. I am offered funds. I produce,
with joy, my first picture. Ha! The success is extravagant!
But--alas!"
"What tripped you?"
"Alas," repeated Puma, "your Government arrests some gentlemen who
have lend to me much funds. Why? Imagine my grief, my mortification!
They are suspect of German propaganda! Oh, my God!"
"How is it they didn't pinch you?" asked Skidder coldly, and
beginning to feel very uneasy.
"Me? No! They investigate. They discover only Art!"
Skidder squinted at him nervously. If he had heard anything of that
sort in connection with Puma he never would have flirted with him
financially.
"Well, then, what's this drag they got with you?--Sondheim and the
other nuts?"
"I tell you. Letters quite innocent but polite they have in
possession----"
"Blackmail, by heck!"
"I must be considerate of Sondheim."
"Or he'll squeal on you. Is that it?"
Puma's black eyes were flaring up again; the heavy colour stained his
face.
"Me, I am----"
"All right. Sondheim's got something on you, then. Has he?"
"It is nothing. Yet, it has embarrass me----"
"That ratty kike! I get you, Angy. You were played. Or maybe you did
some playing too. Aw! wait!"--as Puma protested--"I'm getting you, by
gobs. Sure. And you're rich, now, and business is pretty good, and you
wish Sondheim would let you alone."
"Yes, surely."
"How much hush-cash d'yeh pay him?"
"I?"
"Yaas, you! Come on, now, Angy. What does he stick you up for per
month?"
Puma's face became empurpled: "He is a scoundrel," he said thickly.
"Me--I wish to God and Jesus Christ I saw the last of him!" He got up,
and his step was lithe as a leopard's as he paced the room, ranging
the four walls as though caged. And, for the first time, then Skidder
realised that this velvet-eyed, velvet-footed man might possibly be
rather dangerous--dangerous to antagonise, dangerous to be associated
with in business.
"Say," he blurted out, "what else did you let me in for when I put my
money into your business? Think I'm going to be held up by any game
like that? Think I'm going to stand for any shake-down from that
gang? Watch me."
Puma stopped and looked at him stealthily: "What is it you would do,
Elmer?"
But Skidder offered no suggestion. He remained, however, extremely
uneasy. For it was plain enough that Puma had been involved in
dealings sufficiently suspicious to warrant Government surveillance.
All Skidder's money and real estate were now invested in Super-Pictures.
No wonder he was anxious. No wonder Puma, also, seemed worried.
For, whatever he might have done in the past of a shady nature, now he
had become prosperous and financially respectable and, if let alone,
would doubtless continue to make a great deal of money for Skidder as
well as for himself. And Skidder, profoundly troubled, wondered
whether his partner had ever been guiltily involved in German
propaganda, and had escaped Government detection only to fall a
victim, in his dawning prosperity, to blackmailing associates of
earlier days.
"That mutt Sondheim looks like a bad one to me, and the other
guy--Kastner," he observed gloomily.
"It is better that we should not offend them."
"Just as you say, brother."
"I say it. Yes. We shall be wise to turn to them a pleasing face."
"Sure. The best thing to do for a while is to stall along," nodded
Skidder, "--but always be ready for a chance to hand it to them.
That's safest; wait till we get the goods on them. Then slam it to 'em
plenty!"
"If they annoy me too much," purred Puma, displaying every dazzling
tooth, "it may not be so agreeable for them. I am bad man to
crowd.... Meanwhile----"
"Sure; we'll stall along, Angy!"
They opened the glass door and went out into the studio. And Puma
began again on his favourite theme, the acquiring of Broadway property
and the erection of a cinema theatre. And Skidder, with his limited
imagination of a cross-roads storekeeper, listened cautiously, yet
always conscious of agreeable thrills whenever the subject was
mentioned.
And, although he knew that capital was shy and that conditions were
not favourable, his thoughts always reverted to a man he might be
willing to go into such a scheme with--the president of the Shadow
Hill Trust Company, Alonzo Pawling.
                  *       *       *       *       *
At that very moment, too, it chanced that Mr. Pawling's business had
brought him to New York--in fact, his business was partly with Palla
Dumont, and they were now lunching together at the Ritz.
Alonzo Pawling stood well over six feet. He still had all his
hair--which was dyed black--and also an inky pair of old-fashioned
side whiskers. For the beauty of his remaining features less could be
said, because his eyes were a melancholy and faded blue, his nose very
large and red, and his small, loose mouth seemed inclined to sag, as
though saturated with moisture.
Many years a widower he had, when convenient opportunity presented
itself, never failed to offer marriage to Palla Dumont. And when, as
always, she refused him in her frank, amused fashion, they returned
without embarrassment to their amiable footing of many years--she as
child of his old friend and neighbour, Judge Dumont, he as her
financial adviser, and banker.
As usual, Mr. Pawling had offered Palla his large, knotty hand in
wedlock that morning. And now that this inevitable preliminary was
safely over, they were approaching the end of a business luncheon on
entirely amiable terms with each other.
Financial questions had been argued, investments decided upon, news of
the town discussed, and Palla was now telling him about Elmer Skidder
and his new and apparently prosperous venture into moving pictures.
"He came to see me last evening," she said, smiling at the recollection,
"and he arrived in a handsome limousine with an extra man on the
front--oh, very gorgeous, Mr. Pawling!--and we had tea and he told me
how prosperous he had become in the moving picture business."
"I guess," said Mr. Pawling, "that there's a lot of money in moving
pictures. But nobody ever seems to get any of it except the officials
of the corporation and their favourite stars."
"It seems to be an exceedingly unattractive business," said Palla,
recollecting her unpleasant impressions at the Super-Picture studios.
"The right end of it," said Mr. Pawling, "is to own a big theatre."
She smiled: "You wouldn't advise me to make such an investment, would
you?"
Mr. Pawling's watery eyes rested on her reflectively and he sucked in
his lower lips as though trying to extract the omnipresent moisture.
"I dunno," he said absently.
"Mr. Skidder told me that he would double his invested capital in a
year," she said.
"I guess he was bragging."
"Perhaps," she rejoined, laughing, "but I should not care to make such
an investment."
"Did he ask you?"
"No. But it seemed to me that he hinted at something of that nature.
And I was not at all interested because I am contented with my little
investments and my income as it is. I don't really need much money."
Mr. Pawling's pendulous lip, released, sagged wetly and his jet-black
eyebrows were lifted in a surprised arch.
"You're the first person I ever heard say they had enough money," he
remarked.
"But I have!" she insisted gaily.
Mr. Pawling's sad horse-face regarded her with faded surprise. He
passed for a rich man in Shadow Hill.
"Where is Elmer's place of business?" he inquired finally, producing a
worn note-book and a gold pencil. And he wrote down the address.
There was in all the world only one thing that seriously worried Mr.
Pawling, and that was this worn note-book. Almost every day of his
life he concluded to burn it. He lived in a vague and daily fear that
it might be found on him if he died suddenly. Such things could
happen--automobile or railroad accidents--any one of numberless
mischances.
And still he carried it, and had carried it for years--always in a
sort of terror while the recent Mrs. Pawling was still alive--and in
dull but perpetual anxiety ever since.
There were in it pages devoted to figures. There were, also, memoranda
of stock transactions. There were many addresses, too, mostly
feminine.
Now he replaced it in the breast pocket of his frock-coat, and took
out a large wallet strapped with a rubber band.
While he was paying the check, Palla drew on her gloves; and, at the
Madison Avenue door, stood chatting with him a moment longer before
leaving for the canteen.
Then, smilingly declining his taxi and offering her slender hand in
adieu, she went westward on foot as usual. And Mr. Pawling's
directions to the chauffeur were whispered ones as though he did not
care to have the world at large share in his knowledge of his own
occult destination.
                  *       *       *       *       *
Palla's duty at the canteen lasted until six o'clock that afternoon,
and she hurried on her way home because people were dining there at
seven-thirty.
With the happy recollection that Jim, also, was dining with her, she
ran lightly up the steps and into the house; examined the flowers
which stood in jars of water in the pantry, called for vases, arranged
a centre-piece for the table, and carried other clusters of blossoms
into the little drawing-room, and others still upstairs.
Then she returned to criticise the table and arrange the name-cards.
And, this accomplished, she ran upstairs again to her own room, where
her maid was waiting.
Two or three times in a year--not oftener--Palla yielded to a rare
inclination which assailed her only when unusually excited and happy.
That inclination was to whistle.
She whistled, now, while preparing for the bath; whistled like a
blackbird as she stood before the pier-glass before the maid hooked
her into a filmy, rosy evening gown--her first touch of colour since
assuming mourning.
The bell rang, and the waitress brought an elaborate florist's box.
There were pink orchids in it and Jim's card;--perfection.
How could he have known! She wondered rapturously, realising all the
while that they'd have gone quite as well with her usual black.
Would he come early? She had forgotten to ask it. Would he? For, in
that event--and considering his inclination to take her into his
arms--she decided to leave off the orchids until the more strenuous
rites of friendship had been accomplished.
She was carrying the orchids and the long pin attached, in her left
hand, when the sound of the doorbell filled her with abrupt and
delightful premonitions. She ventured a glance over the banisters,
then returned hastily to the living room, where he discovered her and
did exactly what she had feared.
Her left hand, full of orchids, rested on his shoulder; her cool,
fresh lips rested on his. Then she retreated, inviting inspection of
the rosy dinner gown; and fastened her orchids while he was admiring
it.
Her guests began to arrive before either was quite ready, so engrossed
were they in happy gossip. And Palla looked up in blank surprise that
almost amounted to vexation when the bell announced that their
tête-à-tête was ended.
Shotwell had met the majority of Palla's dinner guests. Seated on her
right, he received from his hostess information concerning some of
those he did not know.
"That rather talkative boy with red hair is Larry Rideout," she said
in a low voice. "He edits a weekly called The Coming Race. The Post
Office authorities have refused to pass it through the mails. It's
rather advanced, you know."
"Who is the girl on his right--the one with the chalky map?"
"Questa Terrett. Don't you think her pallor is fascinating?"
"No. What particular stunt does she perform?"
"Don't be flippant. She writes."
"Ads?"
"Jim! She writes poems. Haven't you seen any of them?"
"I don't think so."
"They're rather modern poems. The lines don't rhyme and there's no
metrical form," explained Palla.
"Are they any good?"
"They're a little difficult to understand. She leaves out so many
verbs and nouns----"
"I know. It's a part of her disease----"
"Jim, please be careful. She is taken seriously----"
"Taken seriously ill? There, dear, I won't guy your guests. What an
absolutely deathly face she has!"
"She is considered beautiful."
"She has the profile of an Egyptian. She's as dead-white as an
Egyptian leper----"
"Hush!"
"Hush it is, sweetness! Who's the good-looking chap over by Ilse?"
"Stanley Wardner."
"And his star trick?"
"He's a secessionist sculptor."
"What's that?"
"He is one of the ultra-modern men who has seceded from the Society
of American Sculptors to form, with a few others, a new group."
"Is he any good?"
"Well, Jim, I don't know," she said candidly. "I don't think I am
quite in sympathy with his work."
"What sort is it?"
"If I understand him, he is what is termed, I believe, a concentrationist.
For instance, in a nude figure which he is exhibiting in his studio, it's
all a rough block of marble except, in the middle of the upper part,
there is a nose."
"A nose!"
"Really, it is beautifully sculptured," insisted Palla.
"But--good heavens!--isn't there any other anatomical feature to that
block of marble?"
"I explained that he is a concentrationist. His school believes in
concentrating on a single feature only, and in rendering that feature
as minutely and perfectly as possible."
Jim said: "He looks as sane as a broker, too. You never can tell, can
you, sweetness?"
He glanced at several other people whose features were not familiar,
but Palla's explanations of her friends had slightly discouraged him
and he made no further inquiries.
Vanya Tchernov was there, dreamy and sweet-mannered; Estridge sat by
Ilse, looking a trifle careworn, as though hospital work were taking
it out of him. Marya Lanois was there, too, with her slightly slanting
green eyes and her tiger-red hair--attracting from him a curious sort
of stealthy admiration, inexplicable to him because he knew he was so
entirely in love with Palla.
A woman of forty sat on his right--he promptly forgot her name each
time he heard it--who ate fastidiously and chose birth-control as the
subject for conversation. And he dodged it in vain, for her
conversation had become a monologue, and he sat fiddling with his
food, very red, while the silky voice, so agreeable in pitch and
intonation, slid smoothly on.
Afterward Palla explained that she was a celebrated sociologist, but
Jim remained shy of her.
Other people came in after dinner. Vanya seated himself at the piano
and played from one of his unpublished scores. Ilse sang two
Scandinavian songs in her fresh, wholesome, melodious voice--the song
called Ygdrasil, and the Song of Thokk. Wardner had brought a
violin, and he and Vanya accompanied Marya's Asiatic songs, but with
some difficulty on the sculptor's part, as modern instruments are
scarcely adapted to the sort of Russian music she chose to sing.
Marya had a way, when singing, which appeared almost insolent. Seated,
or carelessly erect, her supple figure fell into lines of indolently
provocative grace; and the warm, golden notes welling from her throat
seemed to be flung broadcast and indifferently to her listeners, as
alms are often flung, without interest, toward abstract poverty and
not to the poor breathing thing at one's elbow.
She sang, in her preoccupied way, one of her savage, pentatonic songs,
more Mongol than Cossack; then she sang an impudent burlatskiya
lazily defiant of her listeners; then a so-called "dancing song," in
which there was little restraint in word or air.
The subtly infernal enchantment of girl and music was felt by everybody;
but several among the illuminati and the fair ultra-modernettes had
now reached their limit of breadth and tolerance, and were becoming
bored and self-conscious, when abruptly Marya's figure straightened
to a lovely severity, her mouth opened sweetly as a cherub's, and,
looking up like a little, ruddy bird, she sang one of the ancient
Kolyadki, Vanya alone understanding as his long, thin fingers
wandered instinctively into an improvised accompaniment:
                                   I
                     "Young tears
                     Your fears disguise;
                     He is not coming!
                     Sweet lips
                     Let slip no sighs;
                     Cease, heart, your drumming!
                     He is not coming,
                                   [A]Lada!
                     He is not coming.
                     Lada oy Lada!
                     "Gaze not in wonder,--
                     Yonder no rider comes;
                     Hark how the kettle-drums
                     Mock his hoofs' thunder;
                     Hark to their thudding,
                     Pretty breasts budding,--
                     Setting the Buddhist bells
                     Clanking and banging,--
                     Wheels at the hidden wells
                     Clinking and clanging!
                     (Lada oy Lada!)
                     Plough the flower under;
                     Tear it asunder!
                     "Young eyes
                     In swift surprise,
                     What terror veils you?
                     Clear eyes,
                     Who gallops here?
                     What wolf assails you?
                     What horseman hails you,
                                     Lada!
                     What pleasure pales you?
                     Lada oy Lada!
                     "Knight who rides boldly,
                     May Erlik impale you,--
                     Your mother bewail you,
                     If you use her coldly!
                     Health to the wedding!
                     Joy to the bedding!
                     Set all the Christian bells
                     Swinging and ringing--
                     Monks in their stony cells
                     Chanting and singing
                     (Lada oy Lada!)
                     Bud of the rose,
                     Gently unclose!"
Marya, her gemmed fingers bracketed on her hips, the last sensuous
note still afloat on her lips, turned her head so that her rounded
chin rested on her bare shoulder; and looked at Shotwell. He rose,
applauding with the others, and found a chair for her.
But when she seated herself, she addressed Ilse on the other side of
him, leaning so near that he felt the warmth of her hair.
"Who was it wrestled with Loki? Was it Hel, goddess of death? Or was
it Thor who wrestled with that toothless hag, Thokk?"
Ilse explained.
The conversation became general, vaguely accompanied by Vanya's
drifting improvisations, where he still sat at the piano, his lost
gaze on Marya.
Bits of the chatter around him came vaguely to Shotwell--the
birth-control lady's placid inclination toward obstetrics; Wardner on
concentration, with Palla listening, bending forward, brown eyes wide
and curious and snowy hands framing her face; Ilse partly turned where
she was seated, alert, flushed, half smiling at what John Estridge,
behind her shoulder, was saying to her,--some improvised nonsense, of
which Jim caught a fragment:
