
Gowned in grey which in spite of its hue contrived to be brilliant, Mrs.
Austen rustled ever so slightly. Always a handsome woman and well aware
of it, she was of two minds about her daughter's looks. They far
surpassed her own and she did not like that. On the other hand they were
an asset on which she counted.

She rustled, quite as slightly again.

"And such a taking way with him! That little singing-girl whom we saw
to-night, quite a pretty child, didn't you think? She seemed quite
smitten. Then there are others, one may suppose. Yes, certainly, a very
nice young man."

"Mother!"

"Well, what? Young men will be young men. Only a theosophist could
imagine that they would be young girls. I make every allowance from
him--as doubtless he does for others. This is quite as it should be. I
have no patience with model young men. Model young men delight their
mothers' hearts and ruin their wives' temper. They remodel themselves
after marriage. Whereas a young man who is not model at all, one who has
had his fling beforehand, settles down and becomes quite fat. You have
chosen very wisely, my dear. If you had waited you might have had
Paliser and I should not have liked that. He is too good."

Margaret stretched a hand to the fire. She was not cold and the movement
was mechanical. But she made no reply. In Matthew we are told that for
every idle word we utter we shall answer at the day of judgment. That
passage she had longly meditated. She did not believe that Matthew wrote
it and she did not believe in a day of judgment. Matthew was a peasant
who spoke Syro-Chaldaic. It was not supposable that he could write in
Greek. It was not supposable that there can be a specific day of
judgment, since every moment of our days is judged. But through Margaret
had her tolerant doubts, she knew that the message itself was sound. It
did not condemn evil and vulgar words, for they condemn themselves. What
it condemned was idle words and she regretted that her mother employed
them. But theosophy is, primarily, a school of good manners. The Gospel
condemns idle words, theosophy forbids disagreeable ones.

To her mother's remarks, she made therefore no reply. Instead, she
changed the subject.

"Will you care to go with me to his rooms to-morrow?"

With a mimic of surprise and of gentle remonstrance that was admirably
assumed, Mrs. Austen lifted a hand.

"But, my dear! Were you thinking of going alone?"

The remonstrance, however gentle, was absurd and she knew it. Margaret
could go where she liked. It would all be chaste as a piano-recital. But
the flea that she had been trying to put in the girl's ear seemed very
ineffective. She is just as I was at her age, thought this lady, who, in
so thinking, flattered herself extraordinarily.

She shook her head. "For if you were, it would not do. Such things may
pass in London, they don't here. But to-morrow is Saturday, isn't it?
Yes, to-morrow is Saturday. At three I have an appointment with the
dentist. I'll telephone though. That always pains them and, where a
dentist is concerned, I do think turn about is fair play."

It was pleasantly said. To make it pleasanter, she stood up and added:
"Are you to sit here and read? There is a French book lying around
somewhere that belonged to your dear father. I don't remember who wrote
it and I have forgotten the title, but you are sure to like it. There! I
have it. It is called: 'L'art de tromper les femmes.'"

Mrs. Austen moved to the door and looked back.

"But if you don't find it readily, let it go for to-night. Your young
man is sure to have a copy. No nice young man is without one."




VI


Lennox was a broker, a vocation which he practised in Wall Street. Early
on the following afternoon, while returning from there, he sat wedged
between a gunman and a Hun. He was unconscious of either. The uncertain
market; the slump, momentarily undiscernible, but mathematically
inevitable; customers, credulous or sceptical, but always avid; the
pulse of the feverish street which the ticker indifferently registered;
the atmosphere of tobacco and greed; the trailing announcements; "Steel,
three-fourths; Pennsy, a half," these things were forgotten. The train
crashed on. Of that too he was unconscious.

Before him a panorama had unrolled--the day he first saw her, the hour
he first loved her, the moment he first thought she might care for
him--the usual panorama that unfolds before any one fortunate enough to
love and to be loved in return.

"Grand Central!"

The gunman disappeared, the Hun had gone, the car emptied itself on a
platform from which it was at once refilled. Lennox ascended the stair,
reached the street, boarded a taxi, drove to his home.

The latter, situated on the ground floor of an apartment house a step
from Park Avenue, was entirely commonplace, fitted with furniture large
and ugly, yet minutely relieved by a photograph which showed the almost
perfect oval of Margaret's almost perfect face.

The photograph stood on a table in the sitting-room beyond which
extended other rooms that, in addition to being ugly, were dark. But
Lennox had no degrading manias for comfort. Pending the great day he
camped in these rooms, above which, on an upper storey was a duplex
apartment which, if Margaret liked, he proposed to take.

It was for her opinion regarding it that he had asked her to come. In
the forenoon she had telephoned that she and her mother would both be
with him. He had instructed his servant accordingly and now a silver
tea-service that had belonged to his grandmother and which, being
Victorian, was hideous, gleamed at him as he entered the rooms.

Something else gleamed also. On a rug, a puddle of sunlight had spilled.

Above, on the embossed platter, were petits fours, watercress
sandwiches, a sack of sweetmeats, a bunch of violets, a scatter of cups.
Beneath was the puddle.

Lennox looked. It seemed all right.

Harris, his servant, a little man, thin as an umbrella, sidled silently
by. The vestibule took him. From it came the sound of a voice, limpid,
clear, which Lennox knew and knew too was not Margaret's.

"A lady to see you, sir," Harris, reappearing and effacing himself,
announced.

The doorway framed her. There, with her shock of auburn hair, her cameo
face, her slim figure and her costume which, though simple, was not the
ruinous simplicity that Fifth Avenue achieves, Cassy presented a picture
very different from that on the table, a picture otherwise
differentiated by a bundle that was big as a baby.

Lennox did not know but that it might contain a baby and the possibility
alarmed this man who was afraid of nobody.

"Hello!" he exclaimed.

In exclaiming, he stared. He liked the girl. But at the moment she was
in the way. Moreover, why she had come to these rooms of his, where she
had not been invited, and where she had not ventured before, was a
mystery.

"How's your father?" he added.

There are people, as there are animals, that cannot be awkward and are
never ridiculous. Cassy was one of them. None the less she stood on one
foot. The tea-table had become very talkative. It told her that it was
expecting somebody; that watercress sandwiches were not for her; no, nor
Victorian horrors either.

"Be off!" it shouted.

"Sit down," said Lennox.

Cassy, hugging the bundle, remained in the doorway. It was not the
tea-table merely, but something else, the indefinable something which
one may feel and not describe that was telling her to hurry. Afterward,
with that regret which multiplies tears and subtracts nothing, she
wished she had hurried, wished rather that she had not come, wished that
she had defied the wolf, outfaced the butcher, done anything except
enter these rooms.

She shifted the bundle. "I have been gadding about in Wall Street. I
never was there before, but it is so nice and windy I may go there
again. This is just a good-day and good-bye."

As she spoke she turned, and as she turned Lennox' heart smote him. He
hurried to her.

"See here! You can't go like this. Have a cup of tea."

Cassy gave him the rare seduction of her smile. "Thank you. I am out on
business and I never drink in business hours."

But now Lennox had got himself between her and the vestibule.

"Business!" he repeated. "What is it? Anything in my line? Let's
transact it here. Wall Street is no place"--for a pretty girl he was
about to say but, desisting, he substituted--"for you."

"But you are expecting people."

"How in the world did you know? Anyway, they are not here yet and if
they were they would be glad to meet you."

"I wonder!" said Cassy, whose wonder concerned not their pleasure but
her own, and concerned it because she hated snobs, among whom she knew
that Lennox moved.

"Now, tell me," he resumed.

Cassy, realising that it must be then or never, looked up at him.

"You remember father's violin?"

"I should say I did."

"Well, my business in Wall Street was to offer it as--what do you call
it?--as collateral."

Lennox indicated the bundle. "Is that it?"

Cassy nodded. "I had to hide it and smuggle it out without his knowing
it. He thinks it stolen. If he knew, he would kill me. As it is, he has
gone crazy. To quiet him, I said I would go to the police."

Lennox laughed. "And I am the police!"

"Yes, you're the police."

"All right then. The police have recovered it. Take it back to him. How
much do you need? Will a hundred do?"

That was not Cassy's idea. She shook her docked head at it. "You're the
police but I am a business man. If you make the loan, you must keep the
collateral."

"You are a little Jew, that's what you are," Lennox, affecting
annoyance, replied.

Cassy smiled, "I like your jeu d'esprit. But not well enough to accept
money as a gift."

"Good Lord!" Lennox protested. "Look here! I am not giving money away. I
don't mean it as a gift. Pay me back whenever you like. Until then, what
do you expect me to do with that thing? Give serenades? No, take it back
to your father. I know just how he feels about it. He told me."

Cassy shifted the bundle. "Good-bye then." But as he still blocked the
way, she added: "Will you let me pass?"

Moralists maintain that a man should never argue with a woman,
particularly when she is young and good-looking. He should yield, they
assert. Cassy's youth and beauty said nothing audible to Lennox. They
said nothing of which he was then aware. In addition he was not a
moralist. But there are influences, as there are bacilli, which
unconsciously we absorb. For some time he had been absorbing a few. He
did not realise it then. When he did, he was in prison. That though was
later. At the moment he threw up his hands.

"I surrender. Will you mind putting it down somewhere?"

Cassy turned. Beyond was a table and near it a chair to which she went.
There she dumped the violin. In so doing she saw Margaret's picture.

"What a lovely girl!"

Lennox, who had followed, nodded. "That is Miss Austen to whom I am
engaged."

"Oh!" said Cassy. She did not know that Lennox was engaged. But suddenly
the room had become uncomfortably warm and she blurted it: "How happy
she must be!"

At the slip, for he thought it one, Lennox laughed.

"You mean how happy I must be," exclaimed this rare individual to whom
the verb to be happy had a present tense, yet one which even then it was
losing.

He had been fumbling in a pocket. From it he drew a wad of bills, fives
and tens, and made another wad. "Here you are. I will mail you a receipt
for the collateral."

Cassy, taking the money in one hand, extended the other. "May I say
something?"

"Why, of course."

Cassy could talk and very fluently. But at the moment she choked. What
is worse, she flushed. Conscious of which and annoyed at it, she
withdrew her hand and said: "It's so hot here!"

Lennox looked about, then at her. "Is it? Was that what you wanted to
say?"

Cassy shook herself. "No, and it was very rude of me. I wanted to thank
you. Good-bye, Mr. Policeman."

"Good-bye," he threw after the girl, who, in leaving the room, must have
taken the sunlight with her. As she passed over the rug, the puddle
passed too. It followed her out like a dog.

That phenomenon, to which Lennox then attached no significance, he
afterward recalled. For the moment he busied himself with pen and ink.
Presently he touched a button.

From regions beyond the little old man appeared.

Lennox motioned at the bundle. "Take that to this address. Ask for Mr.
Cara and say it comes from the police. From the police, don't forget,
Harris."

"I'll not forget, sir."

"And go now. When the ladies come, I'll open the door."

As it happened, only shadows came. The shadows lengthened. They lapped
the floor, devoured the silver, turned the rug into a pit, the room into
darkness. Apart from shadows, no one came, no one rang. But, though
Lennox was unaware of it, two people did come, and of the two one would
have rung, had not the other prevented.

Lennox did not know that. On the inaccessible planes where events are
marshalled, it was perhaps prearranged that he should not.




VII


Margaret, on her way to Lennox that afternoon, wondered whether it might
not be possible for them to live elsewhere.

Born and bred in the sordid hell with a blue sky that New York was
before the war, latterly the sky itself had darkened. The world in which
she moved, distressed her. Its parure of gaiety shocked. Those who
peopled it were not sordid, they were not even blue. Europe agonised and
they dined and danced, displayed themselves at the opera, summarised the
war as dreadful, dismissed it, gossiped and laughed. It was that
attitude which distressed this girl who, had she been capable of wishing
ill to any one, might have wished them treated as were the élegantes of
Brussels.

Margaret had no such evil wish. But she did hope that when married, she
might reside elsewhere.

"There goes that Mrs. Tomlinson," said her mother. "Last night at the
Bazaar--what do you suppose? She asked me to dinner. She actually did!
The woman must be mad."

Margaret made no reply. Park Avenue was very bright. To her also for the
moment the scientific savagery of the Huns was remote. The brightness of
the April day was about her.

"I am in rags," continued Mrs. Austen, who was admirably dressed. "On
Monday I must really look in on Marguerite. She is an utter liar, but
then you feel so safe with her. Where is it that your young man lives?
Somebody said that lies whiten the teeth. It must be there, isn't it? Or
is it here? These places all look alike, none of them seems to have any
numbers and that makes it so convenient."

They had reached a chalk cliff, on the face of which were windows,
balconies and, at the base, two low steps. On the upper step, in large
black letters, was the cliff's name.

Through glasses, which she did not need, Mrs. Austen surveyed it. "The
Sandringham! Why not The Throne?"

Margaret went on and up. Mrs. Austen followed. At once they were in a
large, marble-flagged hall. Beyond, from a lift, a boy in green and
gilt, peered greedily. At the left was a door with a brass plate that
said: "Dr. Winship." Opposite was another door with another plate on
which was "Lennox."

That, also, Mrs. Austen surveyed. "I did not know your young man was an
earl, but perhaps he is merely a duke. Shall we send that boy or do we
ring? In bachelor quarters one hardly knows what to do--or what goes on
in them either," she immediately and suggestively added.

The door at the right had opened. Cassy was coming out. The flush was
still on her face and in her hand was the money. Mechanically she
thumbed it. She had looked down at the roll of bills and through them at
the butcher, the baker, the candlestickmaker. She looked up and saw
Margaret whose photograph she had seen a moment before. Instantly she
recognised her. Instantly she realised that it was for her the violets
and the sack of bonbons were waiting. As quickly she understood why the
teapot had shouted: "Be off!"

From Margaret she glanced at Mrs. Austen, who was well worth it. In and
about her eyes and mouth there was an expression of such lofty
aloofness, an air of such aristocratic disdain, that though she stood
without motion, movement, or gesture; though, too, there was no draught,
the skirt of her admirable frock seemed to lift and avert itself. It was
the triumph of civilised life. Yet that triumph she contrived to
heighten. Raising the glasses which she did not need, she levelled them
at Cassy.

Cassy, who had but glanced at her, arrested the glance and, for a
second, held it on her, but with an unconcern so obliterating that it
had the effect of blotting-paper. Mrs. Austen felt herself disappearing.
It was as though Cassy had looked at her and had seen nothing whatever.

And that to Mrs. Austen! The lady squirmed but she rallied, the more
readily perhaps since now Cassy had gone, and she said and pleasantly
enough: "What a charming vestal! Such an engaging manner! Seemed, too,
so at home! Let me see? It was she, was it not, who was singing last
night? Rather a coincidence, don't you think?"

Margaret made no reply. The incident, though long in the telling, had
barely outlasted a moment, and crossing the hall, she was approaching
Lennox' door.

Without haste, Mrs. Austen circumvented her. "Not to-day, my dear. As it
is, it is fortunate we came on foot. Otherwise, it would have been
awkward and that is always so distressing. Another day."

Quietly, easily she had got herself in front of Margaret who, without
shoving, could not reach the bell.

With candid eyes she looked at her mother. "You seem to be
suggesting----"

"Perish the thought!" Mrs. Austen sweetly and quickly cut in. "I would
not even suggest that one and two make three, for perhaps they don't.
No, my dear, I suggest nothing. I merely insist. To-day we must postpone
our little visit and to-night, when he comes, you can have it out with
him. A lover's quarrel! What more could you wish? But here now is the
lift-boy. We must dissemble. It's quite like a play.

"No," she interrupted herself to remark at the approaching, greedy and
enquiring youth, "I want nothing whatever except not to be engaged in
conversation."

"Whachyer mean?" asked the boy, who, however, promptly blighted by her
level stare, omitted to pursue it.

She turned again to Margaret. "We will find a taxi at the corner. These
first spring days are so enervating."

Margaret faced her. "I am going in."

The sight of Cassy issuing from Lennox' rooms had surprised her, as the
unexpected will surprise. But in saying that she was going in, it was
not at all for explanations. Explanations are for strangers. Love
understands--or should understand, and Margaret divined that Cassy had
come on some errand from her father, of whose waylaying and rescue
Lennox had long since told her.

"Will you please move a little?" she added.

Mrs. Austen, after routing the boy, had lowered her glasses. She raised
them again. "Look there!"

At the entrance were two women with a child between them. On the stair
was a man. The door marked "Dr. Winship" had opened. The wide hall was
suddenly full of people.

Mrs. Austen lowered her lorgnette. "Don't make a scene, my dear. At
least, don't make one over my dead body."

Resistance was easy, but to what end? Margaret felt that she could
persist, insist, ring and go in, but now only to be accompanied by her
mother's mocking and stilted sneers. The consciousness of that
subtracted the brightness from the day, the pleasure from the visit.
Then, too, that evening he would come. Then they would be alone.

She turned. A moment more and both were in the street, where Mrs. Austen
forgot about the taxi. Other matters occupied the good woman and
occupied her very agreeably. She had been playing a game, and a rare
game it is, with destiny. The stakes were extravagant, but her cards
were poor. Then abruptly, in one of the prodigious shuffles that fate
contrives, a hand, issuing from nowhere, had dealt her a flush. She
purred at it, at the avenue, at the world, at her daughter.

"I am so glad we are not going anywhere to-night." A car flew by, a
gloved hand waved and the purr continued. "Wasn't that Sarah Amsterdam?
By the way, what did the medium tell you? Anything about a dark man
crossing your path? If not, it was very careless of her. But what was I
talking about? Oh, yes, I am so glad we are to be at home. You can have
a nice, quiet evening with your young man. Only, do you know, I wouldn't
say anything about that little vestal. He might not like it. Men are so
queer. They hate to be misunderstood and to be understood makes them
furious. No, I wouldn't mention it. But now isn't he as full of
surprises as a grab-bag? I thought him a model of the most perfect
propriety, and that only shows how wrong it is to judge by appearances.
Model young men always remind me of floor-walkers. Who was that that
just bowed? Dear me, so it was, and he looked so down in the mouth he
might have been a dentist. On Monday I really must go to my dentist. He
does hurt terribly and that is so reassuring. You feel that you are
getting your money's worth. Don't your teeth need attending to? Ah, here
we are at last! God bless our home!"

Entering the hall, she looked at a little room to the right in which the
manager awed prospecting tenants. Usually it was empty. It was empty
then. Mrs. Austen looked, passed on and, preceding Margaret, entered a
lift that floated them to the home on which she had asked a blessing.




VIII


The Italians have a proverb about waiting for some one who does not
come. They call it deadly. Among the lapping shadows Lennox felt the
force of it. But concluding that visitors had detained his guests, he
dressed and went around a corner or two to the Athenæum Club where
usually he dined.

In the main room which gives on Fifth Avenue, he found Ten Eyck Jones
talking war. Jones was a novelist, but he did not look like one. There
was nothing commercial in his appearance, which was that of a man
half-asleep, except when he talked and then he seemed very much awake.
He was not fat and though an inkbeast, he dressed after the manner of
those who put themselves in the best hands and then forget all about it.
But for Lennox he had a superior quality, he was a friend. With him was
Harry Cantillon, who, the night before, had danced away with Kate
Schermerhorn. Straddling an arm of Cantillon's chair was Fred Ogston, a
young man of a type that, even before the war, was vanishing and which
was known as about town. Adjacently sat Peter Verelst. Servants brought
little decanters and removed others. In a corner an old man glared with
envious venom at the liquors of which he had consumed too many and of
which, at the price of his eyesight, he could consume no more.

Jones waved at Lennox. "I have been telling these chaps that before they
are much older they will be in khaki."

"Houp!" cried Cantillon. He sprang up, ran to the arched entrance,
where, lightly, without effort, he turned a somersault and was gone.

The old man in the corner raised himself, shuffled to a table, sat down
and wrote to the house committee. Such conduct could not be tolerated!
Having said it, he raised himself again and shuffled over with the
letter to Dunwoodie, a lawyer with the battered face of a bulldog and a
ruffian's rumpled clothes.

Dunwoodie, instead of taking the letter, gave the old man a look, one
look, his famous look, the look with which--it was said--he reversed the
Bench. Angrily the old man turned tail, collided with Paliser,
apologised furiously, damning him beneath his breath, damning Dunwoodie,
damning the house committee, damning the club.

"Are you to dine here?" Jones asked Ogston, who swore gently, declaring
that, worse luck, he was due at his aunt's.

"But you are," Jones told Lennox. "Come on and I'll make your hair stand
on end." He turned: "And yours, too."

Peter Verelst smoothed the back of his head. "Thank you, Ten Eyck. But
such hair as I have I prefer should remain as it is."

The two men went on and up into another room, spacious, high-ceiled, set
with tables, where a captain got them seated, took their orders,
carefully transmitted them to a careful waiter, an omnibus meanwhile
producing ice-water which Jones had promptly removed.

He smiled at Lennox. "Who was the jeunesse you and Paliser were talking
to last night? She had been singing."

Lennox unfolded a napkin. "I thought you were to make my hair stand on
end."

"Well," said the novelist, who spoke better than he knew, "she may make
Paliser's. There's a young man with plenty of perspective. I saw him in
London just before the deluge. He was then en route for the Marquesas. I
envied him that. I envied him the vanilla-scented nights; the skies, a
solid crust of stars, and also, and particularly, the tattooed ghosts.
But I am forgetting your hair. Were you ever in Berlin?"

Lennox scowled. "Yes. Once."

"And once is too often. The last time I was there, I looked down the
Wilhelmstrasse and it got up and threatened me. Barring the
possibilities of future avatars, I shall not promenade there again. But
I would give a red pippin, I would give two of them, to have been in
Potsdam on that night, that cloudless night, the night in July, when in
a room, gorgeous as only vulgarity could made it, there was sounded the
crack of doom."

Jones gestured and a waiter hurried to him. He motioned him away.

"You can picture it, Lennox, or, if not, who am I to refuse my aid? At
the doors were lackeys; at the gates were guards. Without and beyond, to
the four points of the compass, an unsuspecting world slept, toiled,
feasted, fasted, occupied with its soap-bubble hates and loves. But, in
that room, saurians, with titles as long as your arm, were contriving a
cataclysm that was to exceed the deluge. Since then, and though it be
but through the headlines, you and I stand witness to events that no
mortal ever saw before. That night, in that room they were concocted. By
comparison, what are the mythical exploits of Homer's warriors, the
fabulous achievements of Charlemagne's paladins, the fading memories of
Napoleon's campaigns? What are they all by comparison to a world in
flames? Hugo, with his usual sobriety, said that Napoleon inconvenienced
God. Napoleon wanted Europe. These gunmen want the earth. They won't get
it. Hell is their portion. But, while they were planning the
crib-cracking, I would give a red pippin to have been in their joint
that night. A little more trout?"

Jones turned to the waiter. "Take it away and fetch the roast."

He was about to give other orders, yet these Lennox interrupted.

"But look here. You spoke of an unsuspecting world. The Kaiser had been
rattling the sabre for years. Everybody knew that."

"So he had," said Jones, who contradicted no one. "But England did not
take him seriously, nor did this country either. Consequently, when the
war began it was regarded as but another robber-raid which shortly would
be over. That was an idea that everybody shared, even to the Kaiser, who
afterward said that he had not wanted this war. Incredible as it may
seem he spoke the truth. He did not want a war in which he would be
tripped on the Marne, blocked on the Yser and foiled at Verdun. He
wanted a war in which France would be felled, Russia rolled back, a war
in which, over Serbia's ravaged corpse, his legions could pour down
across the Turkish carpet into the realm where Sardanapalus throned,
beyond to that of Haroun-al-Raschid, on from thence to Ormus and the
Ind, and, with the resulting thralls and treasure, overwhelm England,
gut the United States, destroy civilisation and, on the ruins, set
Deutschland über Alles!"

"Hear! Hear!" said Lennox from between bites.

Jones, after a momentary interlude with a fork, got back at it. "That is
what he wanted! But to get it, he lacked one thing, one thing only. He
had everything else, he had everything that forethought, ingenuity and
science could provide. The arsenals were stocked. The granaries were
packed, the war-chests replete. Grey-green uniforms were piled endlessly
in heaps. Kiel--previously stolen from Denmark, but then reconstructed
and raised to the war degree--at last was open. The navy was ready. The
army was ready. Against any possible combination of European forces, the
oiled machine was prepared. In addition, clairvoyance had supplied the
pretext and stupidity the chance. Petersburg was then in the throes of a
general strike--which the Wilhelmstrasse had engineered. In Paris, the
slipshod condition of the army had been publicly denounced. England and
Ireland were nearly at each other's throats. Yet, had they been in each
other's arms, the Kaiser was convinced that England would not interfere.
Moreover in France, mobilisation required weeks; in Russia, months; and
even then the Russian army, otherwise unequipped, the Tsarina had
supplied with two hundred Teuton generals. That woman used to exclaim at
her resemblance to Marie Antoinette. She flattered herself. It is
Bazaine whom she resembled. But where was I? Oh, yes. The opportunity
was so obvious and everything so neatly prepared that, for good measure,
the pretext was added. An archduke, sinister when living and still more
sinister dead, was, by the Kaiser's orders, bombed to bits and the
bombing fastened on Serbia. Allied stupidity provided the opportunity,
imperial forethought supplied the rest. Since highwayry began, never was
there such a chance. On the last gaiter was the last button. The Kaiser
lacked but one thing."

Lennox shoved at his plate. "So you have said."

Jones, abandoning his fork, repeated it. "One thing! In Potsdam, on that
cloudless July night, when the world, on which he proposed to batten,
slept, toiled, feasted, fasted, occupied with its futile loves and
hates, that thing must have occurred to him."

"Yes, but confound it, what was it?"

Jones lit a cigar. "Bernstorff said, or is said to have said--I do not
count him among my acquaintances--that on that night this supercanaille
showed symptoms of what I think I have seen described as vacillation.
That is quite on the cards. It bears out my theory. In any event the
fellow had his ambitions. He wanted to descend into the red halls of
history disguised. He might have succeeded. History is very careless and
to-day barely recalls that at five o'clock on the morning succeeding his
marriage to a dowdy fat girl, he treated his regiment to a drill. The
fact is uninteresting and would be equally unimportant were it not for
the note that it struck. Subsequently, when he leaped on the throne, he
shouted that those who opposed him he would smash. "There is no other
law than mine"; he later announced--a fine phrase and yet but a modern
variant of Domitian's: "Your god and master orders it." Incidentally, in
addition to the Garter, an honorific which the Duke of Cambridge
admirably summarised as "having, sir, none of the damned nonsense of
merit about it," he had other distinctions. He had--and has--uranomania,
that is to say, a flight of fancy in which the patient believes himself
associated with God. He had also defilirium tremens, which manifested
itself in those man[oe]uvres that are war's image and in which the
troops defile. Yet, when it came to the real thing, it may be that this
paradomaniac lacked the stomach. Apart from the Kruger incident, and one
or two other indecencies, his observance of international etiquette was
relatively correct. The lackeys of history might therefore have
deodorised him. With a sow's ear a lot may be done. Have a cigar?"

Lennox laughed. "I would prefer the point."

"Now, how greedy you are. Well then, here it is. On that fatidic night
in July, this fellow was fifty-five."

"What of it?"

"Everything. At his age Alexander had been dead twenty years."

As Jones spoke he raised his hands. "Spirit of the Great Sinner, forgive
me! This scrofulous dwarf has no kinship with thee!"

"No," Jones, dropping his hands, resumed. "None. His kin are Herod,
Caracalla, Attila, Genghis Khan, and Cloacus, Lord of Sewers. Those are
his kin. To the shade of the Lampsacene, whom the world had forgotten;
to that of Cloacus, whom civilisation had ignored, subsequently he
devoted the army. For the troops he invoked them. But that night the
ghosts of the others gave him pause. At his age, Caracalla, Attila,
Genghis, were dead. They had died hideous, monstrous--but young. Herod
alone may have seemed a promising saint to swear by, though, in the
obscurities of Syrian chronology, even of him he could not be sure. The
one kindred hyena who, at fifty-five, had defied the world was Tsi An,
the Chinese Empress, and he had helped to squelch her. Do you see it
now? To burglarise the world, this thug had every advantage. The police
were asleep. The coast was clear. The jimmies and the dynamite sticks
were ready. Even the dark lantern was packed. The kit was complete. He
had everything. He lacked nothing, except the one essential--Youth! The
eyes of youth are clear. His were too dimmed to foresee that the
allies----"

Lennox was rising.

Amiably Jones switched on and off again. "Hold on a minute. You have not
given me the "Who's Who" of that young woman."

In Lennox' brain, instantly cells latent, alert, and of which he was
entirely unconscious, functioned actively. Before him Cassy stood.
Beside her was another. This other, very lovely, was a saint. Yet,
prompted still by the cells and equally unaware of it, it occurred to
him that a lovely saint may resemble a vase that is exquisite, but
unresilient and perhaps even empty. Whereas a siren, like Cassy----

Abruptly he caught himself up. The unawaited disloyalty into which he
had floundered, surprised and annoyed him. He could not account for the
delicate infidelity and perplexedly he looked at Jones who still was at
it.

"The diva I mean. The diva in duodecimo who sang at the Bazaar."

Lennox shook himself and sat down again. Modestly then the thrice-told
tale was repeated--Angelo Cara, a violin in one hand, a sword-cane in
the other, trudging home. The attack, the rout, the rescue, the
acquaintance with Cassy that ensued.

Jones, absorbing the story, pigeonholed his memory with the details
which, sometime, for copy purposes, might be of use.

"They are Portuguese," Lennox, rising again, concluded.

Jones peered about. The great room was filled with members, eating,
drinking, laughing, talking--talking mainly of nothing whatever. He
motioned. "Isn't that Cantillon over there with--of all
people!--Dunwoodie?"

Lennox looked and nodded. "Cantillon is in Dunwoodie's office. He asked
me to give him my law business." Indifferently, with the air of one
considering the improbable, Lennox added: "Some day I may. Good-night."

But in the night into which he then went, already that day was breaking.




IX


That same evening, as Lennox was leaving the club, Mrs. Austen, rising
from the dinner-table, preceded Margaret into the drawing-room and
looked at the clock, a prostrate nymph, balancing a dial on the soles of
her feet. At the figures on the dial, the nymph pointed a finger.

From the clock Mrs. Austen turned and exclaimed at the windows which she
had already examined. "The jardinières have not yet been attended to! It
is inconceivable!"

Margaret, who had seated herself, said: "You might send for the
manager."

"He would only keep me waiting and then expect me to tell him what I
wanted. He ought to know. Besides, I might have forgotten. It is very
tiresome."

Margaret stood up. "I will tell him."

With a click, Mrs. Austen unfurled a fan and, with another click,
refurled it. "No. I will see him myself. I am quite in the humour."

Margaret looked after her mother, who was leaving the room. The sudden
tempest in a flowerpot surprised her. But the outer door closed.
Margaret reseated herself. Presently he would come and together they
would make those plans that lovers make--and then unmake, unless,
elsewhere, they have been made for them.

Meanwhile she waited. The incident at the Sandringham, the sight of
Cassy, her mother's facile insinuations, these things had distressed
her, because, and only because, they had prevented her from enjoying the
innocent pleasure of the innocent visit to the rooms of her betrothed,
whom she loved with a love that was too pure and too profound, to
harbour doubt and suspicion and that evil child of theirs which jealousy
is. Her faith was perfect. That faith showed in her face and heightened
her beauty with a candour that should have disarmed her mother, who, in
the hall below, was, at that moment, instructing a man and not about
flower-boxes either.

"Mr. Lennox, you may know him, by sight I mean, will be coming here
shortly. Please have him shown into that room there."

Mrs. Austen passed on. The little room at which she had glanced that
afternoon received her--a hospitality in which a mirror joined. The
latter welcomed her with a glimpse of herself. It was like meeting an
old friend. But no; a friend certainly, yet not an old one. Age had not
touched this lady, not impudently at least, though where it may have had
the impertinence to lay a finger, art had applied another, a moving
finger that had written a parody of youth on her face which was then
turning to some one behind her whom the mirror disclosed.

In turning, she smiled.

"It is so good of you, Mr. Lennox, to look in on me. The door-man told
