"No, Claudia," quoth I, "you have taken my bow and spear, and shorn me
of my thatch like any Mohawk. No; I go to Fonda's Bush----" I smiled,
"--to heal, perhaps, my heart, as you say; but, anyhow, to consult my
soul, and armour it in a wilderness."
"A hermit!" she exclaimed scornfully, "--and afeard of a maid armed only
with two matched eyes, a nose, a mouth and thirty teeth!"
"Afeard of a monster more frightful than that," said I, laughing.
"Of what monster, John Drogue?"
"Of that red monster that is surely, surely creeping northward to
surprise and rend us all," said I in a low voice. "And so I shall retire
to question my secret soul, and arm it cap-à-pie as God directs."
She was looking at me intently. After a silence she said:
"I do love you; and Billy Alexander; and all gay and brave young men
whose unstained swords hedge the women of County Tryon from this same
red monster that you mention." And watched me to see how I swallowed
this.
I said warily: "Surely, Claudia, all women command our swords ... no
matter which cause we espouse."
"Jack!"
"I hear you, Claudia."
But, "Oh, my God!" she breathed; and put her hands to her face. A moment
she stood so, then, eyes still covered by one hand, extended the other
to me. I kissed it lightly; then kissed it again.
"Do you leave us, Jack?"
I understood.
"It is you who leave me, Claudia."
She, too, understood. It was my first confession that all was not right
betwixt my conscience and my King. For that was the only thing I was
certain about concerning her: she never betrayed a confidence, whatever
else she did. And so I made plain to her where my heart and honour
lay--not with the King's men in this coming struggle--but with my own
people.
I think she knew, too, that I had never before confessed as much to any
living soul, for she took her other hand from her eyes and looked at me
as though something had happened in which she took a sorrowful pride.
Then I kissed her hand for the third time, and let it free. And, going:
"God be with you," she said with a slight smile; "you are my dear
friend, John Drogue."
At the Hall porch she turned, the mischief glimmering in her eyes:
"--And so is Billy Alexander," quoth she.
So she went into the darkened Hall.
       
It was many months before I saw our Sacharissa again--not until Major
André had made many another verse for many another inamorata, and his
soldier-actors had played more than one of his farces in besieged Boston
to the loud orchestra of His Excellency's rebel cannon.
CHAPTER III
THE POT BOILS
Sir William died on the 24th of June in the year 1774; which was the
twentieth year of my life.
On the day after he was buried in Saint John's Church in Johnstown,
which he had built, I left the Hall for Fonda's Bush, which was a
wilderness and which lay some nine miles distant in the Mohawk country,
along the little river called Kennyetto.
I speak of Fonda's Bush as a wilderness; but it was not entirely so,
because already old Henry Stoner, the trapper who wore two gold rings in
his ears, had built him a house near the Kennyetto and had taken up his
abode there with his stalwart and handsome sons, Nicholas and John, and
a little daughter, Barbara.
Besides this family, who were the pioneers in that vast forest where the
three patents[2] met, others now began settling upon the pretty little
river in the wilderness, which made a thousand and most amazing windings
through the Bush of Major Fonda.
[Footnote 2: The Three Patents were Sacandaga, Kayaderosseras, and
Stones.]
There came, now, to the Kennyetto, the family of one De Silver; also the
numerous families of John Homan, and Elias Cady; then the Salisburys,
Putnams, Bowmans, and Helmers arrived. And Benjamin De Luysnes followed
with Joseph Scott where the Frenchman, De Golyer, had built a house and
a mill on the trout brook north of us. There was also a dour Scotchman
come thither--a grim and decent man with long, thin shanks under his
kilts, who roved the Bush like a weird and presently went away again.
But before he took himself elsewhere he marked some gigantic trees with
his axe and tied a rag of tartan to a branch.
And, "Fonda's Bush is no name," quoth he. "Where a McIntyre sets his
mark he returns to set his foot. And where he sets foot shall be called
Broadalbin, or I am a great liar!"
And he went away, God knows where. But what he said has become true; for
when again he set his foot among the dead ashes of Fonda's Bush, it
became Broadalbin. And the clans came with him, too; and they peppered
the wilderness with their Scottish names,--Perth, Galway, Scotch Bush,
Scotch Church, Broadalbin,--but my memory runs too fast, like a young
hound giving tongue where the scent grows hotter!--for the quarry is not
yet in sight, nor like to be for many a bloody day, alas!----
       
There was a forest road to the Bush, passable for waggons, and used
sometimes by Sir William when he went a-fishing in the Kennyetto.
It was by this road I travelled thither, well-horsed, and had borrowed
the farm oxen to carry all my worldly goods.
I had clothing, a clock, some books, bedding of my own, and sufficient
pewter.
I had my own rifle, a fowling piece, two pistols, and sufficient
ammunition.
And with these, and, as I say, well horsed, I rode out of Johnstown on a
June morning, all alone, my heart still heavy with grief for Sir
William, and deeply troubled for my country.
For the provinces, now, were slowly kindling, warmed with those pure
flames that purge the human soul; and already the fire had caught and
was burning fiercely in Massachusetts Bay, where John Hancock fed the
flames, daintily, cleverly, with all the circumstance, impudence, and
grace of your veritable macaroni who will not let an inferior outdo him
in a bow, but who is sometimes insolent to kings.
Well, I was for the forest, now, to wrest from a sunless land a mouthful
o' corn to stop the stomach's mutiny.
And if the Northland caught fire some day--well, I was as inflammable as
the next man, who will not suffer violation of house or land or honour.
       
As Brent-Meester to Sir William, my duties took me everywhere. I knew
old man Stoner, and Nick had become already my warm friend, though I was
now a grown man of more than twenty and he still of boy's age. Yet, in
many ways, he seemed more mature than I.
I think Nick Stoner was the most mischievous lad I ever knew--and
admired. He sometimes said the same of me, though I was not, I think, by
nature, designed for a scapegrace. However, two years in the wilderness
will undermine the grace of saint or sinner in some degree. And if, when
during those two hard years I went to Johnstown for a breath of
civilization--or to Schenectady, or, rarely, to Albany--I frequented a
few good taverns, there was little harm done, and nothing malicious.
True, disputes with Tories sometimes led to blows, and mayhap some
Albany watchman's Dutch noddle needed vinegar to soothe the flamms
drummed upon it by a stout stick or ramrod resembling mine.
True, the humming ale at the Admiral Warren Tavern may sometimes have
made my own young noddle hum, and Nick Stoner's, too; but there came no
harm of it, unless there be harm in bussing a fresh and rosy wench or
two; or singing loudly in the tap-room and timing each catch to the
hammering of our empty leather jacks on long hickory tables wet with
malt.
But why so sad, brother Broadbrim? Youth is not to be denied. No! And
youth that sets its sinews against an iron wilderness to conquer
it,--youth that wields its puny axe against giant trees,--youth that
pulls with the oxen to uproot enormous stumps so that when the sun is
let in there will be a soil to grow corn enough to defy
starvation,--youth that toils from sun-up to dark, hewing, burning,
sawing, delving, plowing, harrowing day after day, month after month,
pausing only to kill the wild meat craved or snatch a fish from some
forest fount,--such youth cannot be decently denied, brother Broadbrim!
But if Nick and I were truly as graceless as some stiff-necked folk
pretended, always there was laughter in our scrapes, even when hot blood
boiled at the Admiral Warren, and Tory and Rebel drummed one another's
hides to the outrage of law and order and the mortification of His
Majesty's magistrates in County Tryon.
Even in Fonda's Bush the universal fire had begun to smoulder; the names
Rebel and Tory were whispered; the families of Philip Helmer and Elias
Cady talked very loudly of the King and of Sir John, and how a hempen
rope was the fittest cravat for such Boston men as bragged too freely.
But what most of all was in my thoughts, as I swung my axe there in the
immemorial twilight of the woods, concerned the Indians of the great
Iroquois Confederacy.
What would these savages do when the storm broke? What would happen to
this frontier? What would happen to the solitary settlers, to such
hamlets as Fonda's Bush, to Johnstown, to Schenectady--nay, to Albany
itself?
Sir William was no more. Guy Johnson had become his Majesty's
Superintendent for Indian affairs. He was most violently a King's man--a
member of the most important family in all the Northland, and master of
six separate nations of savages, which formed the Iroquois Confederacy.
What would Guy Johnson do with the warriors of these six nations that
bordered our New York frontier?
Always these questions were seething in my mind as I swung my axe or
plowed or harrowed. I thought about them as I sat at eventide by the
door of my new log house. I considered them as I lay abed, watching the
moonlight crawl across the puncheon floor.
       
As Brent-Meester to Sir William, I knew Indians, and how to conduct when
I encountered them in the forest, in their own castles, or when they
visited the Hall.
I had no love for them and no dislike, but treated them always with the
consideration due from one white man to another.
I was not conscious of making any friends among them, nor of making any
enemies either. To me they were a natural part of the wilderness, like
the trees, rivers, hills, and wild game, belonging there and not
wantonly to be molested.
Others thought differently; trappers, forest runners, coureurs-du-bois
often hated them, and lost no opportunity to display their animosity or
to do them a harm.
But it was not in me to feel that way toward any living creature whom
God had fashioned in His own image if not in His own colour. And who is
so sure, even concerning the complexion of the Most High?
Also, Sir William's kindly example affected my sentiments toward these
red men of the forest. I learned enough of their language to suit my
requirements; I was courteous to their men, young and old; and
considerate toward their women. Otherwise, I remained indifferent.
       
Now, during these first two years of my life in Fonda's Bush, events in
the outer world were piling higher than those black thunder-clouds that
roll up behind the Mayfield hills and climb toward mid-heaven. Already
the dull glare of lightning lit them redly, though the thunder was, as
yet, inaudible.
In April of my first year in Fonda's Bush a runner came to the Kennyetto
with the news of Lexington, and carried it up and down the wilderness
from the great Vlaie and Maxon Ridge to Frenchman's Creek and Fonda's
Bush.
This news came to us just as we learned that our Continental Congress
was about to reassemble; and it left our settlement very still and
sober, and a loaded rifle within reach of every man who went grimly
about his spring plowing.
But the news of open rebellion in Massachusetts Bay madded our Tory
gentry of County Tryon; and they became further so enraged when the
Continental Congress met that they contrived a counter demonstration,
and, indeed, seized upon a pretty opportunity to carry it with a high
hand.
For there was a Court holden in Johnstown, and a great concourse of
Tryon loyalists; and our Tory hatch-mischiefs did by arts and guile and
persuasions obtain signatures from the majority of the Grand Jurors and
the County Magistracy.
Which, when known and flaunted in the faces of the plainer folk of Tryon
County, presently produced in all that slow, deep anger with which it is
not well to trifle--neither safe for kings nor lesser fry.
In the five districts, committees were appointed to discuss what was to
be the attitude of our own people and to erect a liberty pole in every
hamlet.
The Mohawk district began this business, which, I think, was truly the
beginning of the Revolution in the great Province of New York. The
Canajoharie district, the Palatine, the Flatts, the Kingsland followed.
And, at the Mohawk district meeting, who should arrive but Sir John,
unannounced, uninvited; and with him the entire company of Tory
big-wigs--Colonels Claus, Guy Johnson, and John Butler, and a heavily
armed escort from the Hall.
Then Guy Johnson climbed up onto a high stoop and began to harangue our
unarmed people, warning them of offending Majesty, abusing them for
dolts and knaves and traitors to their King, until Jacob Sammons, unable
to stomach such abuse, shook his fist at the Intendant. And, said he:
"Guy Johnson, you are a liar and a villain! You may go to hell, sir, and
take your Indians, too!"
But Guy Johnson took him by the throat and called him a damned villain
in return. Then the armed guard came at Sammons and knocked him down
with their pistol-butts, and a servant of Sir John sat astride his body
and beat him.
There was a vast uproar then; but our people were unarmed, and presently
took Sammons and went off.
But, as they left the street, many of them called out to Sir John that
it were best for him to fortify his Baronial Hall, because the day drew
near when he would be more in need of swivel guns than of
congratulations from his Royal Master.
Sure, now, the fire blazing so prettily in Boston was already running
north along the Hudson; and Tryon had begun to smoke.
Now there was, in County Tryon, a number of militia regiments of which,
when brigaded, Sir William had been our General.
Guy Johnson, also, was Colonel of the Mohawk regiment. But the Mohawk
regiment had naturally split in two.
Nevertheless he paraded the Tory remainder of it, doubtless with the
intention of awing the entire county.
It did awe us who were unorganized, had no powder, and whose messengers
to Albany in quest of ammunition were now stopped and searched by Sir
John's men.
For the Baronet, also, seemed alarmed; and, with his battalion of
Highlanders, his Tory militia, his swivels, and his armed retainers,
could muster five hundred men and no mean artillery to hold the Hall if
threatened.
But this is not what really troubled the plain people of Tryon. Guy
Johnson controlled thousands of savage Iroquois. Their war chief was Sir
William's brother-in-law, brother to the dark Lady Johnson, Joseph
Brant, called Thayendanegea,--the greatest Mohawk who ever
lived,--perhaps the greatest of all Iroquois. And I think that Hiawatha
alone was greater in North America.
Brave, witty, intelligent, intellectual, having a very genius for war
and stratagems, educated like any gentleman of the day and having served
Sir William as secretary, Brant, in the conventional garments of
civilization, presented a charming and perfectly agreeable appearance.
Accustomed to the society of Sir William's drawing room, this Canienga
Chief was utterly conversant with polite usage, and entirely qualified
to maintain any conversation addressed to him. Always he had been made
much of by ladies--always, when it did not too greatly weary him, was he
the centre of batteries of bright eyes and the object of gayest
solicitation amid those respectable gatherings for which, in Sir
William's day, the Hall was so justly celebrated.
That was the modest and civil student and gentleman, Joseph Brant.
But in the forest he was a painted spectre; in battle a flame! He was a
war chief: he never became Royaneh;[3] but he possessed the wisdom of
Hendrik, the eloquence of Red Jacket, the terrific energy of Hiakatoo.
[Footnote 3: Sachem: the Canienga term.]
We, of Tryon, were aware of all these things. Our ears were listening
for the dread wolf cry of the Iroquois in their paint; our eyes were
turned in dumb expectation toward our Provincial Congress of New York;
toward our dear General Schuyler in Albany; toward the Continental
Congress now in solemn session; toward our new and distant hope shining
clearer, brighter as each day ended--His Excellency the Virginian.
How long were Sir John and his people to be left here in County Tryon to
terrorize all friends to liberty,--to fortify Johnstown, to stop us
about our business on the King's highway, to intrigue with the Mohawks,
the Oneidas, the Cayugas, the Onondagas, the Senecas, the Tuscaroras?
Guy Johnson tampered with the River Indians at Poughkeepsie, and we knew
it. He sent belts to the Shawanese, to the Wyandottes, to the Mohicans.
We knew it. He met the Delaware Sachems at a mongrel fire--God knows
where and by what authority, for the Federal Council never gave it!--and
we stopped one of his runners in the Bush with his pouch full o' belts
and strings; and we took every inch of wampum without leave of Sir John,
and bade the runner tell him what we did.
We wrote to Albany; Albany made representations to Sir John, and the
Baronet replied that his show of armed force at the Hall was solely for
the reason that he had been warned that the Boston people were laying
plans to invade Tryon and make of him a prisoner.
I think this silly lie was too much for Schuyler, for all now knew that
war must come. Twelve Colonies, in Congress assembled, had announced
that they had rather die as free people than continue to live as slaves.
Very fine indeed! But what was of more interest to us at Fonda's Bush,
this Congress commissioned George Washington as Commander in Chief of a
Colonial Army of 20,000 men, and prepared to raise three millions on
bills of credit for the prosecution of the war!
Now, at last, the cleavage had come. Now, at last, Sir John was forced
into the open.
He swore by Almighty God that he had had no hand in intriguing against
the plain people of Tryon: and while he was making this oath, Guy
Johnson was raising the Iroquois against us at Oswego; he was plotting
with Carleton and Haldimand at Montreal; he had arranged for the
departure of Brant with the great bulk of the Mohawk nation, and, with
them, the fighting men of the Iroquois Confederacy. Only the Western
Gate Keepers remained,--the fierce Senecas.
And so, except for a few Tuscaroras, a few lukewarm Onondagas, a few of
the Lenape, and perhaps half--possibly two-thirds of the Oneida nation,
Guy Johnson already had swung the terrible Iroquois to the King.
And now, secretly, the rats began to leave for the North, where, behind
the Canada border, savage hordes were gathering by clans, red and white
alike.
Guy Johnson went on pretense of Indian business; and none dare stop the
Superintendent for Indian affairs on a mission requiring, as he stated,
his personal appearance at Oswego.
But once there he slipped quietly over into Canada; and Brant joined
him.
Colonel Claus sneaked North; old John Butler went in the night with a
horde of Johnstown and Caughnawaga Tories. McDonald followed,
accompanied by some scores of bare-shinned Tory Mc's. Walter Butler
disappeared like a phantom.
But Sir John remained behind his stockade and swivels at the Hall,
vowing and declaring that he meditated no mischief--no, none at all.
Then, in a fracas in Johnstown, that villain sheriff, Alexander White,
fired upon Sammons, and the friends to liberty went to take the
murderous Tory at the jail.
Frey was made sheriff, which infuriated Sir John; but Governor Tryon
deposed him and reappointed White, so the plain people went again to do
him a harm; and he fled the district to the mortification of the
Baronet.
But Sir John's course was nearly at an end: and events in the outer
world set the sands in his cloudy glass running very swiftly. Schuyler
and Montgomery were directing a force of troops against Montreal and
Quebec, and Sir Guy Carleton, Governor General of Canada, was shrieking
for help.
St. John's surrendered, and the Mohawk Indians began fighting!
Here was a pretty pickle for Sir John to explain.
Suddenly we had news of the burning of Falmouth.
       
On a bitter day in early winter, an Express passed through Fonda's Bush
on snow-shoes, calling out a squad of the Mohawk Regiment of District
Militia.
Nick Stoner, Andrew Bowman, Joe Scott, and I answered the summons.
Snow-shoeing was good--a light fall on the crust--and we pulled foot for
the Kingsborough trail, where we met up with a squad from the Palatine
Regiment and another from the Flatts.
But scarce were we in sight of Johnstown steeples when the drums of an
Albany battalion were heard; and we saw, across the snow, their long
brown muskets slanting, and heard their bugle-horn on the Johnstown
road.
       
I saw nothing of the affair at the Hall, being on guard at St. John's
Church, lower down in the town. But I saw our General Schuyler ride up
the street with his officers; and so knew that all would go well.
All went well enough, they say. For when again the General rode past the
church, I saw waggons under our escort piled with the muskets of the
Highland Battalion, and others heaped high with broad-swords, pistols,
swivels, and pikes. And on Saturday, the twentieth of January, when our
tour of duty ended, and our squads were dismissed, each to its proper
district, all people knew that Sir John Johnson had given his parole of
honor not to take up arms against America; not to communicate with the
Royalists in Canada; not to oppose the friends of liberty at home; nor
to stir from his Baronial Hall to go to Canada or to the sea, but with
liberty to transact such business as might be necessary in other parts
of this colony.
And I, for one, never doubted that a son of the great Sir William would
keep his word and sacred parole of honour.
CHAPTER IV
TWO COUNTRY MICE
It was late in April, and I had boiled my sap and had done with my sugar
bush for another year. The snow was gone; the Kennyetto roared amber
brilliant through banks of melting ice, and a sweet odour of arbutus
filled all the woods.
Spring was in the land and in my heart, too, and when Nick Stoner
galloped to my door in his new forest dress, very fine, I, nothing
loath, did hasten to dress me in my new doe-skins, not less fine than
Nick's and lately made for me by a tailor-woman in Kingsborough who was
part Oneida and part Dutch.
That day I wore a light, round cap of silver mole fur with my unshorn
hair, all innocent of queue or powder, curling crisp like a woman's. Of
which I was ashamed and eager to visit Toby Tice, our Johnstown barber,
and be trimmed.
My new forest dress, as I say, was of doe-skin--a laced shirt belted in,
shoulder-caped, cut round the neck to leave my throat free, and with
long thrums on sleeve and skirt against need.
Trews shaped to fit my legs close; and thigh moccasins, very deep with
undyed fringe, but ornamented by an infinite pattern of little green
vines, made me brave in my small mirror. And my ankle moccasins were gay
with Oneida devices wrought out of porcupine quills and beads, scarlet,
green, purple, and orange, and laid open at the instep by two beaded
flaps.
I saddled my mare, Kaya, in her stall, which was a log wing to my house,
and presently mounted and rode around to where Nick sat his saddle
a-playing on his fife, which he carried everywhere with him, he loving
music but obliged to make his own.
"Lord Harry!" cried he on seeing me so fine. "If you are not truly a
Viscount then you look one!"
"I would not change my name and health and content," said I, "for a
king's gold crown today." And I clinked the silver coins in my pouch and
laughed. And so we rode away along the Johnstown road.
He also, I think, was dying for a frolic. Young minds in trouble as well
as hard-worked bodies need a holiday now and then. He winked at me and
chinked the shillings in his bullet-pouch.
"We shall see all the sights," quoth he, "and the Kennyetto could not
quench my thirst today, nor our two horses eat as much, nor since time
began could all the lovers in history love as much as could I this April
day.... Were there some pretty wench of my own mind to use me kindly....
Like that one who smiled at us--do you remember?"
"At Christmas?"
"That's the one!" he exclaimed. "Lord! but she was handsome in her
sledge!--and her sister, too, Jack."
"I forget their names," said I.
"Browse," he said, "--Jessica and Betsy. And they live at Pigeon-Wood
near Mayfield."
"Oho!" said I, "you have made their acquaintance!"
He laughed and we galloped on.
Nick sang in his saddle, beating time upon his thigh with his fife:
    "Flammadiddle!
    Paddadiddle!
    Flammadiddle dandy!
    My Love's kisses
    Are sweet as sugar-candy!
    Flammadiddle!
    Paddadiddle!
    Flammadiddle dandy!
    She makes fun o' me
    Because my legs are bandy----"
He checked his gay refrain:
"Speaking of flamms," said he, "my brother John desires to be a drummer
in the Continental Line."
"He is only fourteen," said I, laughing.
"I know. But he is a tall lad and stout enough. What will be your
regiment, Jack?"
"I like Colonel Livingston's," said I, "but nobody yet knows what is to
be the fate of the district militia and whether the Mohawk regiment, the
Palatine, and the other three are to be recruited to replace the Tory
deserters, or what is to be done."
Nick flourished his flute: "All I know," he said, "is that my father and
brother and I mean to march."
"I also," said I.
"Then it's in God's hands," he remarked cheerfully, "and I mean to use
my ears and eyes in Johnstown today."
We put our horses to a gallop.
       
We rode into Johnstown and through the village, very pleased to be in
civilization again, and saluting many wayfarers whom we recognized, Tory
and Whig alike. Some gave us but a cold good-day and looked sideways at
our forest dress; others were marked in cordiality,--men like our new
Sheriff, Frey, and the two Sammonses and Jacob Shew.
We met none of the Hall people except the Bouw-Meester, riding beside
five yoke of beautiful oxen, who drew bridle to exchange a mouthful of
farm gossip with me while the grinning slaves waited on the footway,
goads in hand.
Also, I saw out o' the tail of my eye the two Bartholomews passing,
white and stunted and uncanny as ever, but pretended not to notice them,
for I had always felt a shiver when they squeaked good-day at me, and
when they doffed hats the tops of their heads had blue marbling on the
scalp under their scant dry hair. Which did not please me.
Whilst I chattered with the Bouw-Meester of seeds and plowing, Nick, who
had no love for husbandry, practiced upon his fife so windily and with
such enthusiasm that we three horsemen were soon ringed round by urchins
of the town on their reluctant way to school.
"How's old Wall?" cried Nick, resting his puckered lips and wiping his
fife. "There's a schoolmaster for pickled rods, I warrant. Eh, boys? Am
I right?"
Lads and lassies giggled, some sucked thumbs and others hung their
heads.
"Come, then," cried Nick, "he's a good fellow, after all! And so am
I--when I'm asleep!"
Whereat all the children giggled again and Nick fished a great cake of
maple sugar from his Indian pouch, drew his war-hatchet, broke the lump,
and passed around the fragments. And many a childish face, which had
been bright and clean with scrubbing, continued schoolward as sticky as
a bear cub in a bee-tree.
And now the Bouw-Meester and his oxen and the grinning slaves had gone
their way; so Nick and I went ours.
There were taverns enough in the town. We stopped at one or two for a
long pull and a dish of meat.
Out of the window I could see something of the town and it seemed
changed; the Court House deserted; the jail walled in by a new
palisade; fewer people on the street, and little traffic. Nor did I
perceive any red-coats ruffling it as of old; the Highlanders who passed
wore no side-arms,--excepting the officers. And I thought every Scot
looked glum as a stray dog in a new village, where every tyke moves
stiffly as he passes and follows his course with evil eyes.
We had silver in our bullet pouches. We visited every shop, but
purchased nothing useful; for Nick bought sweets and a mouse-trap and
some alley-taws for his brother John--who wished to go to war! Oh,
Lord!--and for his mother he found skeins of brightly-coloured wool; and
for his father a Barlow jack-knife.
I bought some suekets and fish-hooks and a fiddle,--God knows why, for I
can not play on it, nor desire to!--and I further purchased two books,
"Lives of Great Philosophers," by Rudd, and a witty poem by Peter
Pindar, called "The Lousiad"--a bold and mirthful lampoon on the British
King.
These packets we stowed in our saddle-bags, and after that we knew not
what to do save to seek another tavern.
But Nick was no toss-pot, nor was I. And having no malt-thirst, we
remained standing in the street beside our horses, debating whether to
go home or no.
"Shall you pay respects at the Hall?" he asked seriously.
But I saw no reason to go, owing no duty; and the visit certain to prove
awkward, if, indeed, it aroused in Sir John no more violent emotion than
pain at sight of me.
With our bridles over our arms, still debating, we walked along the
street until we came to the Johnson Arms Tavern,--a Tory rendezvous not
now frequented by friends of liberty.
It was so dull in Johnstown that we tied our horses and went into the
Johnson Arms, hoping, I fear, to stir up a mischief inside.
Their brew was poor; and the spirits of the dozen odd Tories who sat
over chess or draughts, or whispered behind soiled gazettes, was poorer
still.
All looked up indifferently as we entered and saluted them.
"Ah, gentlemen," says Nick, "this is a glorious April day, is it not?"
"It's well enough," said a surly man in horn spectacles, "but I should
be vastly obliged, sir, if you would shut the door, which you have left
swinging in the wind."
"Sir," says Nick, "I fear you are no friend to God's free winds. Free
winds, free sunshine, free speech, these suit my fancy. Freedom, sir, in
her every phase--and Liberty--the glorious jade! Ah, gentlemen, there's
a sweetheart you can never tire of. Take my advice and woo her, and
you'll never again complain of a breeze on your shins!"
"If you are so ardent, sir," retorted another man in a sneering voice,
"why do you not go courting your jade in Massachusetts Bay?"
"Because, sir," said I, "our sweetheart, Mistress Liberty, is already on
her joyous way to Johnstown. It is a rendezvous, gentlemen. Will it
please you to join us in receiving her?"
One man got up, overturning the draught board, paid his reckoning, and
went out muttering and gesticulating.
"A married man," quoth Nick, "and wedded to that old hag, Tyranny. It
irks him to hear of fresh young jades, knowing only too well what old
sour-face awaits him at home with the bald end of a broom."
The dark looks cast at us signalled storms; but none came, so poor the
spirit of the company.
"Gentlemen, you seem melancholy and distrait," said I. "Are you so
pensive because my Lord Dunmore has burned our pleasant city of Norfolk?
Is it that which weighs upon your minds? Or is the sad plight of Tommy
Gage distressing you? Or the several pickles in which Sir Guy Carleton,
General Burgoyne, and General Howe find themselves?"
"Possibly," quoth Nick, "a short poem on these three British warriors
may enliven you:
    "Carleton, Burgoyne, Howe,
    "Bow-wow-wow!"
But there was nothing to be hoped of these sullen Tories, for they took
our laughter scowling, but budged not an inch. A pity, for it was come
to a pretty pass in Johnstown when two honest farmers must go home for
lack of a rogue or two of sufficient spirit to liven a dull day withal.
       
We stopped at the White Doe Tavern, and Nick gave the company another
poem, which he said was writ by my Lord North:
    "O Boston wives and maids draw near and see
    Our delicate Souchong and Hyson tea;
    Buy it, my charming girls, fair, black, or brown;
    If not, we'll cut your throats and burn your town!"
Whereat all the company laughed and applauded; and there was no hope of
any sport to be had there, either.
"Well," said Nick, sighing, "the war seems to be done ere it begun.
What's in those whelps at the Johnson Arms, that they stomach such jests
as we cook for them? Time was when I knew where I could depend upon a
broken head in Johnstown--mine own or another's."
We had it in mind to dine at the Doe, planning, as we sat on the stoop,
bridles in hand, to ride back to the Bush by new moonlight.
"If a pretty wench were as rare as a broken head in Johnstown," he
muttered, "I'd be undone, indeed. Come, Jack; shall we ride that way
homeward?"
"Which way?"
"By Pigeon-Wood."
"By Mayfield?"
"Aye."
"You have a sweetheart there, you say?"
"And so, perhaps, might you, for the pain of passing by."
"No," said I, "I want no sweetheart. To clip a lip en passant, if the
lip be warm and willing,--that is one thing. A blush and a laugh and
'tis over. But to journey in quest of gallantries with malice
aforethought--no."
"I saw her in a sledge," sighed Nick, sucking his empty pipe. "And
followed. Lord, but she is handsome,--Betsy Browse!--and looked at me
kindly, I thought.... We had a fight."
"What?"
"Her father and I. For an hour the old man nigh twisted his head off
turning around to see what sledge was following his. Then he shouts,
'Whoa!' and out he bounces into the snow; and I out o' my sledge to see
what it was he wanted.
"He wanted my scalp, I think, for when I named myself and said I lived
at Fonda's Bush, he fetched me a knock with his frozen mittens,--Lord,
Jack, I saw a star or two, I warrant you; and a gay stream squirted from
my nose upon the snow and presently the whole wintry world looked red to
me, so I let fly a fist or two at the old man, and he let fly a few more
at me.
"'Dammy!' says he, 'I'll learn ye to foller my darters, you poor dum
Boston critter! I'll drum your hide from Fundy's Bush to Canady!'
"But after I had rolled him in the snow till his scratch-wig fell off,
he became more civil--quite polite for a Tory with his mouth full o'
snow.
"So I went with him to his sledge and made a polite bow to the
ladies--who looked excited but seemed inclined to smile when I promised
to pass by Pigeon-Wood some day."
"A rough wooing," said I, laughing.
"Rough on old man Browse. But he's gone with Guy Johnson."
"What! To Canada? The beast!"
"Aye. So I thought to stop some day at Pigeon-Wood to see if the cote
were entirely empty or no. Lord, what a fight we had, old Browse and I,
there in the snow of the Mayfield road! And he burly as an October
bear--a man all knotted over with muscles, and two fists that slapped
you like the front kick of a moose! Oh, Lordy! Lordy! What a battle was
there.... What bright eyes hath that little jade Betsy, of Pigeon-Wood!"
Now, as he spoke, I had a mind to see this same Tory girl of
Pigeon-Wood; and presently admitted to him my curiosity.
And then, just as we had mounted and were gathering bridles and
searching for our stirrups with moccasined toes, comes a galloper in
scarlet jacket and breeks, with a sealed letter waved high to halt me.
Sitting my horse in the street, I broke the seal and read what was
written to me.
The declining sun sent its rosy shafts through the still village now,
painting every house and setting glazed windows a-glitter.
I looked around me, soberly, at the old and familiar town; I glanced at
Nick; I gazed coldly upon the galloper,--a cornet of Border Horse, and
as solemn as he was young.
"Sir," said I, "pray present to Lady Johnson my duties and my
compliments, and say that I am honoured by her ladyship's commands, and
shall be--happy--to present myself at Johnson Hall within the hour."
Young galloper salutes; I outdo him in exact and scrupulous courtesy,
mole-skin cap in hand; and 'round he wheels and away he tears like the
celebrated Tory in the song, Jock Gallopaway.
"Here's a kettle o' fish," remarked Nick in disgust.
"Were it not Lady Johnson," muttered I, but checked myself. After all,
it seemed ungenerous that I should decline to see even Sir John, who now
was virtually a prisoner of my own party, penned here within that
magnificent domain of which his great father had been creator and
absolute lord.
"I must go, Nick," I said in a low voice.
He said with a slight sneer, "Noblesse oblige----" and then, sorry, laid
a quick hand on my arm.
"Forgive me, Jack. My father wears two gold rings in his ears. Your
father wore them on his fingers. I know I am a boor until your kindness
makes me forget it."
I said quietly: "We are two comrades and friends to liberty. It is not
what we are born to but what we are that matters a copper penny in the
world."
"It is easy for you to say so."
"It is important for you to believe so. As I do."
"Do you really so?" he asked with that winning upward glance that
revealed his boyish faith in me.
"I really do, Nick; else, perhaps, I had been with Guy Johnson in Canada
long ago."
"Then I shall try to believe it, too," he murmured, "--whether ears or
fingers or toes wear the rings."
We laughed.
"How long?" he inquired bluntly.
"To sup, I think. I must remain if Lady Johnson requests it of me."
"And afterward. Will you ride home by way of Pigeon-Wood?"
"Will you still be lingering there?" I asked with a smile.
"Whether the pigeon-cote be empty or full, I shall await you there."
I nodded. We smiled at each other and wheeled our horses in opposite
directions.
CHAPTER V
A SUPPER
Now, what seemed strange to me at the Hall was the cheerfulness of all
under circumstances which must have mortified any Royalist, and, in
particular, the principal family in North America of that political
complexion.
Even Sir John, habitually cold and reserved, appeared to be in most
excellent spirits for such a man, and his wintry smile shed its faint
pale gleam more than once upon the company assembled at supper.
On my arrival there seemed to be nobody there except the groom, who took
my mare, Kaya, and Frank, Sir William's butler, who ushered me and
seemed friendly.
Into the drawing room came black Flora, all smiles, to say that the
gentlemen were dressing but that Lady Johnson would receive me.
She was seated before her glass in her chamber, and the red-cheeked
Irish maid she had brought from New York was exceedingly busy curling
her hair.
"Oh, Jack!" said Lady Johnson softly, and holding out to me one hand to
be saluted, "they told me you were in the village. Has it become
necessary that I must send for an old friend who should have come of his
own free will?"
"I thought perhaps you and Sir John might not take pleasure in a visit
from me," I replied, honestly enough.
"Why? Because last winter you answered the district summons and were on
guard at the church with the Rebel Mohawk company?"
So she knew that, too. But I had scarcely expected otherwise. And it
came into my thought that the dwarfish Bartholomews had given her news
of my doings and my whereabouts.
"Come," said she in her lively manner, "a good soldier obeys his
colonel, whoever that officer may chance to be--for the moment. And,
were you even otherwise inclined, Jack, of what use would it have been
to disobey after Philip Schuyler disarmed our poor Scots?"
"If Sir John feels as you do, it makes my visit easier for all," said I.
"Sir John," she replied, "is not a whit concerned. We here at the Hall
have laid down our arms; we are peaceably disposed; farm duties begin; a
multitude of affairs preoccupy us; so let who will fight out this
quarrel in Massachusetts Bay, so only that we have tranquillity and
peace in County Tryon."
I listened, amazed, to this school-girl chatter, marvelling that she
herself believed such pitiable nonsense.
Yet, that she did believe it I was assured, because in my Lady Johnson
there was nothing false, no treachery or lies or cunning.
Somebody sure had filled her immature mind with this jargon, which now
she repeated to me. And in it I vaguely perceived the duplicity and
ingenious manoeuvring of wills and minds more experienced than her
own.
But I said only that I hoped this county might escape the conflagration
now roaring through all New England and burning very fiercely in
Virginia and the Carolinas. Then, smiling, I made her a compliment on
her hair, which her Irish maid was dressing very prettily, and laughed
at her man's banyan which she so saucily wore in place of a levete. Only
a young and pretty woman could presume to wear a flowered silk banyan at
her toilet; but it mightily became Polly Johnson.
"Claudia is here," she remarked with a kindly malice perfectly
transparent.
I took the news in excellent part, and played the hopeless swain for a
while, to amuse her, and so cunningly, too, that presently the charming
child felt bound to comfort me.
"Claudia is a witch," says she, "and does vast damage to no purpose but
that it feeds her vanity. And this I have said frequently to her very
face, and shall continue until she chooses to refrain from such harmful
coquetry, and seems inclined to a more serious consideration of life and
duty."
"Claudia serious!" I exclaimed. "When Claudia becomes pensive, beware of
her!"
"Claudia should marry early--as I did," said she. But her features grew
graver as she said it, and I saw not in them that inner light which
makes delicately radiant the face of happy wifehood.
I thought, "God pity her," but I said gaily enough that retribution must
one day seize Claudia's dimpled hand and place it in the grasp of some
gentleman fitly fashioned to school her.
We both laughed; then she being ready for her stays and gown, I retired
to the library below, where, to my chagrin, who should be lounging but
Hiakatoo, war chief of the Senecas, in all his ceremonial finery.
Despite what dear Mary Jamison has written of him, nor doubting that
pure soul's testimony, I knew Hiakatoo to be a savage beast and a very
devil, the more to be suspected because of his terrible intelligence.
With him was a Mr. Hare, sometime Lieutenant in the Mohawk Regiment,
with whom I had a slight acquaintance. I knew him to be Tory to the
bone, a deputy of Guy Johnson for Indian affairs, and a very shifty
character though an able officer of county militia and a scout of no
mean ability.
Hare gave me good evening with much courtesy and self-possession.
Hiakatoo, also, extended a muscular hand, which I was obliged to take or
be outdone in civilized usage by a savage.
"Well, sir," says Hare in his frank, misleading manner, "the last o' the
sugar is a-boiling, I hear, and spring plowing should begin this week."
Neither he nor Hiakatoo had as much interest in husbandry as two
hoot-owls, nor had they any knowledge of it, either; but I replied
politely, and, at their request, gave an account of my glebe at Fonda's
Bush.
"There is game in that country," remarked Hiakatoo in the Seneca
dialect.
Instantly it entered my head that his remark had two interpretations,
and one very sinister; but his painted features remained calmly
inscrutable and perhaps I had merely imagined the dull, hot gleam that I
thought had animated his sombre eyes.
"There is game in the Bush," said I, pleasantly,--"deer, bear,
turkeys, and partridges a-drumming the long roll all day long. And I
have seen a moose near Lake Desolation."
Now I had replied to the Seneca in the Canienga dialect; and he might
interpret in two ways my reference to bears, and also what I said
concerning the drumming of the partridges.
But his countenance did not change a muscle, nor did his eyes. And as
for Hare, he might not have understood my play upon words, for he seemed
interested merely in a literal interpretation, and appeared eager to
hear about the moose I had seen near Lake Desolation.
So I told him I had watched two bulls fighting in the swamp until the
older beast had been driven off.
"Civilization, too, will soon drive away the last of the moose from
Tryon," quoth Hare.
"How many families at Fonda's Bush?" asked Hiakatoo abruptly.
I was about to reply, telling him the truth, and checked myself with
lips already parted to speak.
There ensued a polite silence, but in that brief moment I was convinced
that they realized I suddenly suspected them.
What I might have answered the Seneca I do not exactly know, for the
next instant Sir John entered the room with Ensign Moucher, of the old
Mohawk Regiment, and young Captain Watts from New York, brother to
Polly, Lady Johnson, a handsome, dissipated, careless lad, inclined to
peevishness when thwarted, and marred, perhaps, by too much adulation.
Scarce had compliments been exchanged with snuff when Lady Johnson
entered the room with Claudia Swift, and I thought I had seldom beheld
two lovelier ladies in their silks and powder, who curtsied low on the
threshold to our profound bows.
As I saluted Lady Johnson's hand again, she said: "This is most kind of
you, Jack, because I know that all farmers now have little time to
waste."
"Like Cincinnatus," said I, smilingly, "I leave my plow in the furrow at
the call of danger, and hasten to brave the deadly battery of your
bright eyes."
Whereupon she laughed that sad little laugh which I knew so well, and
which seemed her manner of forcing mirth when Sir John was present.
I took her out at her request. Sir John led Claudia; the others paired
gravely, Hare walking with the Seneca and whispering in his ear.
Candles seemed fewer than usual in the dining hall, but were sufficient
to display the late Sir William's plate and glass.
The scented wind from Claudia's fan stirred my hair, and I remembered it
was still the hair of a forest runner, neither short nor sufficiently
long for the queue, and powdered not a trace.
I looked around at Claudia's bright face, more brilliant for the saucy
patches and newly powdered hair.
"La," said she, "you vie with Hiakatoo yonder in Mohawk finery,
