his neck. "Say you were proud of me. I'd 
love to hear it." 

He gave her a bear-like hug. "Of course. 
You are the prettiest and the most animated woman in San Francisco, and that's saying a good 
deal. And I've g^ven them all a mighty surprise." 

"I believe that is the longest compliment 
you ever paid me — and because I made a good 
impression on some one else. What irony ! " 

She pouted charmingly, but her eyes were 
wistful. " Now sit down and talk to me. I've 
scarcely seen you since we arrived.'' 

"Oh ! Remember you are married to this old 
ruffian. You'll see enough of me in the next 
thirty or forty years. Run to bed and get your 
beauty sleep. I promised to go to the Union 
Club." 

"The Club? You went to the Club last night 
and the night before and the night before that. 
Every night since we arrived — " 

"I haven't seen half my old cronies yet and 
they are waiting for a good old pdcer game. 
Sleep is what you want after such an exdting 
day. Remember, I doctor the nerves of all the 
women in San Francisco and this is a hard 
climate on nerves. Wonder more women 
don't go to the devil." 

He kissed her again and escaped hurriedly. 
Those were the days when women wept fac- 
ilely, "swooned," inhaled hartshorn, calmed 
themselves with sal volatile, and even went 
into hysterics upon slight provocation. Madeleine Talbot merely wept. She believed her- 
self to be profoundly in love with her jovial 
magnetic if rather rough husband. He was so 



 

diflEerent from the correct reserved men she 
had been associated with during her anchored 
life in Boston. In Washington she had met 
only the staid old families, and senators of a 
benignant^ formality. In Europe she had run 
across no one she knew who might have intro- 
duced her to interesting foreigners, and Mrs. 
Chilton would as willingly have caressed a 
tiger as spoken to a stranger no matter how prepossessing. Howard Talbot, whom she had 
met at the house of a common friend, had taken 
her by storm. Her family had disapproved, 
not only because he was by birth a Southerner, 
but for the same reason that had attracted their 
Madeleine. He was entirely too different. 
Moreover, he would take her to a barbarous 
country where there was no Society and people 
dared not venture into the streets lest they be 
shot. But she had overruled them and been 
very happy — ^at times. He was charming and 
adorable and it was manifest that for him no 
other woman existed. 

But she could not flatter herself that she was 
indispensable. He openly preferred the society of men, and during that interminable sea 
yoyage she had seen little of him save at the 



 

table or when he came to their stateroom late at 
night. For her mind he appeared to have a 
good-natured masculine contempt. He talked 
to her as he would to a fascinating little girl. 
If he cared for mental recreation he found it 
in men. 

She went into her bedroom and bathed her 
eyes with eau de cologne. At least he had 
given her no cause for jealousy. That was one 
compensation. And a wise married friend had 
told her that the only way to manage a husband 
was to give him his head and never to indulge 
in the luxiuy of reproaches. She was sorry she 
had forgotten herself tonight. 



IV 



DR. TALBOT had confided to Mrs. McLane that His wife was inclined to be a has 
bleu and he wanted her broken of an unfeminine love of books. Mrs. McLane, who knew 
that a reputation for bookishness would be fatal 
in a community that regarded " Lucile " as a 
great poem and read little but the few novels 
that drifted their way (or the continued stories 
in Godey's Lady's Book), promised him that 
Madeleine's intellectual aspirations should be 
submerged in the social gaieties of the season. 

She kept her word. Dinners, receptions, 
luncheons, theatre parties, in honor of the bride, 
followed in rapid succession, and when all had 
entertained her, the less personal invitations 
followed as rapidly. Her popularity was not 
founded on novelty. 

No girl in her first season had ever enjoyed 
herself more naively and she brought to every 
entertainment eager sparkling eyes and danc- 
ing feet that never tired. She became the 
reigning toast.'' At parties she was surrounded  by a bevy of admirers or forced to 
divide her dancesj for it was soon patent there 
was no jealousy in Talbot's composition and 
that he took an equally naive pride in his wife's 
success. When alone with women she was 
quite as animated and interested; and, more- 
over, invited them to copy her gowns. Some 
had been made in Paris, others in New York. 
The local dressmakers felt the stirrings of ambition, and the shops sent for a more varied assortment of fabrics. 

Madeleine Talbot at this time was very 
happy, or, at least, too busy to recall her earlier 
dreams of happiness. The whole-hearted devotion to gaiety of this stranded little community, its elegance, despite its limitations, its unbounded hospitality to all within its guarded 
portals, its very absence of intellectual criticism, made the formal life of her brief past appear dull and drab in the retrospect. The 
spirit of Puritanism seemed to have lost heart 
in those trackless wastes between the Atlantic 
and the Pacific and turned back. True, the 
moral code was rigid (on the surface) ; but far 
from too much enjoyment of life, of quaffing 
eagerly at the brimming cup, being sinful, they 



 

would have held it to be a far greater sin not to 
have accepted all that the genius of San Francisco so lavishly provided. 

Wildness and recklessness were in the air, 
the night life of San Francisco was probably 
the maddest in the world j nor did the gambling 
houses close their doors by day, nor the women 
of Dupont Street cease from leering through, 
their shuttered windows} a city bom in delirium and nourished on crime, whose very atmosphere was electrified and whose very 
foundations were restless, would take a quarter 
of a century at least to manufacture a decent 
thick surface of conventionality, and its self- 
conscious respectable wing could no more escape 
its spirit than its fogs and winds. But evil excitement was tempered to irresponsible gaiety, 
a constant whirl of innocent pleasures. When 
the spirit passed the portals imtempered, and 
drove women too highly-strung, too unhappy, 
or too easily bored, to the divorce courts, to 
drink, or to reckless adventure, they were summarily dropped. No woman, however guiltless, could divorce her husband and remain a 
member of that vigilant court. It was all or 
nothing. If a married woman were clever 



 

enough to take a lover undetected and merely 
furnish interesting surmise, there was no attempt to ferret out and punish her for no society can exist without gossip. 

But none centered about Madeleine Talbot. 
Her little coquetries were impartial and her devotion to her husband was patent to the most 
infatuated eye. Life was made very pleasant 
for her. Howard, during that first winter, 
accompanied her to all the dinners and parties, 
and she gave several entertainments in her large 
suite at the Occidental Hotel. Sally Ballinger 
was a lively companion for the mornings and 
was as devoted a friend as youth could demand. Mrs. Abbott petted her, and Mrs. 
Ballinger forgot that she had been born in 
Boston. 

When it was discovered that she had a sweet 
lyric soprano, charmingly cultivated, her popularity winged another flight} San Francisco 
from Its earliest days was musical, and she made 
a brilliant success as La Belle Helene in the 
amateur light opera company organized by 
Mrs. McLane. It was rarely that she spent 
an evening alone, and the cases of books she 
had brought from Boston remained in the cellars of the Hotel. 



SOCIETY went to the country to escape the 
screaming winds and dust clouds of summer. A few had built country houses, the rest 
found abundant amusement at the hotels of 
The Geysers, Warm Springs and Congress 
Springs, taking the waters dutifully. 

As the city was constantly swept by epidemics 
Dr. Talbot rarely left his post for even a few 
days' shooting, and Madeleine remained with 
him as a matter of course. Moreover, she 
hoped for occasional long evenings with her 
husband and the opportunity to convince him 
that her companionship was more satisfying 
than that of his friends at the Club. She had 
not renounced the design of gradually converting him to her own love of literature, and 
pictured delightful hours during which they 
would discuss the world's masterpieces together. 

But he merely hooted amiably and pinched 
her cheeks when she approached the subject 

 

tentatively. He was infernally over-worked 
and unless he had a few hours' relaxation at 
the Club he would be unfit for duty on the morrow. She was his heart's delight, the prettiest 
wife in San Francisco j he worked the better 
because she was always lovely at the breakfast 
table and he could look forward to a brief dinner in her always radiant company. Thank 
God, she never had the blues nor carried a 
bottle of smelling salts about with her. And 
she hadn't a nerve in her body! God! How 
he did hate women's nerves. No, she was a 
model wife and he adored her unceasingly. 
But companionship? When she timidly uttered 
the word, he first stared uncomprehendingly, 
then burst into loud laughter. 

"Men don't find companionship in women, 
my dear. If they pretend to they're after 
something else. Take the word of an old stager 
for that. Of course there is no such thing as 
companionship among women as men understand the term, but you have Society, which is 
really all you want. Yearnings are merely a 
symptom of those accursed nerves. For God's 
sake forget them. Flirt all you choose — there 
are plenty of men in townj have them in for 



 

dinner if you like — but if any of those young 
bucks talks companionship to you put up your 
guard or come and tell me, I'll settle his 
hash.'' 

"I don't want the companionship of any 
other man, but I'd like yours." 

"You don't know how lucky you are. You 
have all of me you could stand. Three or four 
long evenings — ^well, we'd yawn in each other's 
faces and go to bed. A bull but true enough." 

"Then I think I'll have the books unpacked, 
not only those I brought, but the new case papa 
sent to me. I have lost the resource of Society 
for several months, and I do not care to have 
men here after you have gone. That would 
mean gossip." 

"You are above gossip and I prefer the men 
to the books. You'll ruin your pretty eyes, 
and you had the makings of a fine bluestocking 
when I rescued you. A successful woman — 
with her husband and with Society — has only 
sparkling shallows in her pretty little head. 
Now, I must run. I really shouldn't have 
come all the way up here for limch." 

Madeleine wandered aimlessly to the window and looked down at the scurrying throngs 



 

on Montgomery Street. There were few women. The men bent against the wind, clutching at their hats, or chasing them along the un- 
even wooden sidewalks, tripping perhaps on a 
loose board. There were tiny whirlwinds of 
dust in the unpaved streets. The bustling little 
city that Madeleine had thought so pictiu-esque 
in its novelty suddenly lost its glamour. It 
looked as if parts of it had been flung together 
in a night between solid blocks imported from 
the older communities} so furious was the desire 
to achieve immediate wealth there were 
only three or four buildings of architectural 
beauty in the city. The shop windows on 
Montgomery Street were attractive with the 
wares of Paris, but Madeleine coveted nothing 
in San Francisco. 

She thought of Boston, New York, Washington, Europe, and for a moment nostalgia 
overwhelmed her. If Howard would only 
take her home for a visit! Alas! he was as 
little likely to do that as to give her the 
companionship she craved. 

But she had no intention of taking refuge in 
tears. Nor would she stay at home and mope. 
Her friends were out of town. She made up 



 

her mind to go for a walk, although she hardly 
knew where to go. Between mud and dust 
and hills, walking was not popular in San Francisco. However, there might be some excitement in exploring. 

She looped her brown cloth skirt over her 
balmoral petticoat, tied a veil round her small 
hat and set forth. Although the dust was flying she dared not lower her veil until she 
reached the environs, knowing that if she did 
she would be followed j or if recogniixd, 
accused of the unpardonable sin. The heavy 
veil in the San Francisco of that day, save when 
driving in aggressively respectable company, 
was almost an interchangeable term for assignation. It was as inconvenient for the virtuous as indiscreet for the carnal. 

Madeleine reached the streets of straggling 
homes and those long impersonal rows depressing in their middle-class respectability, and 
lowered the veil over her smarting eyes. 
She also squared her shoulders and strode 
along with an independent swing that must 
convince the most investigating mind she was 
walking for exercise only. 

Almost unconsciously she directed her steps 



 

toward the Cliff House Road where she had 
driven occasionally behind the doctor's spanking 
team. It was four o'clock when she entered 
it and the wind had fallen. The road was 
thronged with buggios, tandems, hacks, phaetons, and four-in-hahds. Society might be 
out of town but the still gayer world was not. 
Madeleine, skirting the edge of the road to 
avoid disaster stared eagerly behind her v^l. 
Here were the reckless and brilliant women of 
the demi-monde of whom she had heard so 
much, but to whom she had barely thrown a 
glance when driving with her husband. They 
were painted and dyed and kohled and their 
plumage would have excited the envy of birds 
in Paradise. San Francisco had lured these 
ladies " round the Horn " since the early Fifties: a different breed from the camp followers 
of the late Forties. Some had fallen from a 
a high estate, others had been the mistresses of 
rich men in the East, or belles in the half world 
of New York or Paris. Never had they found 
life so free or pickings so easy as in San Francisco. 

Madeleine knew that many of the eminent 
citizens she met in Society kept their mistresses 



 

and flaunted them openly. It was, in fact, 
almost a convention. She was not surprised to 
see several men who had taken her in to dinner 
tooling these gorgeous cyprians and looking 
far prouder than when they played host in the 
world of fashion. On one of the gayest of the 
coaches she saw f oiu- of the yoimg men who 
Were among the most devoted of her cavaliers 
at dances: Alexander Groome, Amos Lawton, 
Ogden Bascom, and "Tom'' Abbott, Jr. 
Groome was paying his addresses to Maria 
Ballinger, " a fine figure of a girl '' who had 
inherited little of her mother's beauty but 
all of her virtue, and Madeleine wondered if he would reform and settle down. 
Abbott was engaged to Marguerite McLane 
and looked as if he were having his last 
glad fling. Ogden Bascom had proposed 
to Guadalupe Hathaway every month for 
five years. It was safe to say that he 
would toe the mark if he won her. But he did 
not appear to be nursing a blighted heart at 
present. 

Madeleine's depression left her. That, at 
least, Howard would never do. She felt full 
of hope and buoyancy once more, not realizing 



 

that it is easier to win back a lover than change 
the nature of man. 

When Madeleine reached the Cliff House, 
that shabby innocent-looking little building 
whose evil fame had run round the world, she 
stared at it fascinated. Its restaurant over- 
hung the sea. On this side the blinds were 
down. It looked as if awaiting the undertaken 
She pictured Howard's horror when she told 
him of her close contact with vice, and anticipated with a pleasurable thrill the scolding he 
would give her. They had never quarrelled 
and it would be delightful to make up. 

" Not Mrs, Talbot ! No ! Assuredly not ! ''

Involuntarily Madeleine raised her veil. She 
recognized the voice of " Old " Ben Travers 
(he was only fifty but bald and yellow), the 
Union Club gossip, and the one man in San 
Francisco she thoroughly disliked. He stood 
with his hat in his hand , an expression of 
ludicrous astonishment on his face. 

" Yes, it is I,'' said Madeleine coolly. " And 
I am very much interested." 

" Ah? Interested? " He glanced about.
If this were an assignation either the man was 
late or had lost courage. But he assumed an 



 

expression of deep respect. " That I can well 
imagine, cloistered as you are. But, if you will 
permit me to say so, it is hardly prudent. 
Surely you know that this is a place of ill repute 
and that your motives, however innocent, 
might easily be misconstrued." 

" I am alone ! " said Madeleine gaily, "and 
my veil is up! Not a man has glanced at me, 
I look so tiresomely respectable in these stout 
walking clothes. Even you, dear Mr. Travers, 
whom we accuse of being quite a gossip, understand perfectly." 

" Oh, yes, indeed. I do understand. And 
Mrs. Talbot is like Caesar's wife, but never- 
theless — there is a hack. It is waiting, but I 
think I can bribe him to take us in. You really 
must not remain here another moment — and 
you surely do not intend to walk back — six 
miles? " 

" No, I'll be glad to drive — but if you will 
engage the hack — I shouldn't think of bothering you further." 

"I shall take you home," said Travers 
firmly. " Howard never would forgive me if 
I did not — that is — that is — " 

Madeleine laughed merrily. " If I intend 


 

to tell him! But of course I shall tell him. 
Why not? '' 

" Well, yes, it would be best. I'll speak to 
the man." 

The Jehu was reluctant, but a bill passed and 
he drove up to Madeleine. " Guess I can do 
it," he said, " but I'll have to drive pretty fast." 

Madeleine smiled at him and he touched his 
hat. She had employed him more than once. 
"The faster the better, Thomas," she said. 
" I walked out and am tired." 

" I saw you come striding down the road, 
ma'am," he said deferentially, " and I knew 
you got off your own beat by mistake. I think 
I'd have screwed up my courage and said something if Mr. Travers hadn't happened along." 

Madeleine nodded carelessly and entered 
the hack, followed by Travers, in spite of her 
protests. 

"I too walked out here and intended to ask 
some one to give me a lift home. I am the unfortunate possessor of a liver, my dear yoimg 
lady, and must walk six miles a day, although 
I loathe walking as I loathe drinking weak 
whiskey and water." 

Madeleine shrugged her shoulders and attempted to raise one of the curtains. The 
interior was as dark as a cave. But Travers 
exclaimed in alarm. 

" No! No! Not until we get out of this. 
When we have reached the city, but not here. 
In a hack on this road — " 

" Oh, very well. Then entertain me, please, 
as I cannot look out. You always have something interesting to tell." 

" I am flattered to think you find me entertaining. I've sometimes thought you didn't 
like me." 

" Now you know that is nonsense. I always 
think myself fortunate if I sit next you at dinner." Madeleine spoke in her gayest tones, 
but in truth she dreaded what the man might 
make of this innocent escapade and intended to 
make a friend of him if possible. 

She was growing accustomed to the gloom 
and saw him smile fatuously. " That sends me 
to the seventh heaven. How often since you 
came have I wished that my dancing days were 
not over." 

" I'd far rather hear you talk. Tell me 
some news." 



" News? News? San Francisco is as flat at 



 

present as spilled champagne. Let me see? 
Ah! Did you ever hear of Langdon Mas- 
ters? '' 

"No. Who is he?'' 

"He is Virginian like myself — a distant 
cousin. He fought through the war, badly 
wounded twice, came home to find little 
left of the old estate — practically nothing 
for him. He tried to start a newspaper 
in Richmond but couldn't raise the capital. 
He went to New York and wrote for the 
newspapers there; also writes a good deal 
for the more intellectual magazines. Thought 
perhaps you had come across something of his. 
There is just a whisper, you know, that you 
were rather a bas bleu before you came to us." 

" Because I was bom and educated in Boston? Poor Boston! I do recall reading something of Mr. Masters' in the Atlantic — I suppose it was — but I have forgotten what. 
Here, I have grown too frivolous — and happy 
— to care to read at all. But what have you to 
tell me particularly about Mr. Masters? " 

" I had a letter from him this morning asking me if there was an opening here. He resents the antagonism in the North that he meets 



 

at every turn, although they are glad enough 
of his exceptionally brilliant work. But he 
knows that San Francisco is the last stronghold 
of the South, and also that our people are 
generous and enterprising. I shall write him 
that I can see no opening for another paper at 
present, but will let him know if there happens 
to be one on an editorial staff. That is a long 
journey to take on an uncertainty." 

" I should think so. Heavens, how this 
carriage does bounce. The horses must be galloping.''

" Probably.'' He lifted a comer of the curtain. "We shall reach the city soon at this 
rate. Ah! " 

Madeleine, in spite of the bouncing vehicle, 
had managed heretofore to prop herself 
firmly in her comer, but a violent lurch suddenly threw her against Travers. He caught 
her firmly in one of his lean wiry arms. At 
the moment she thought nothing of it, although she disliked the contact, but when she 
endeavored to disengage herself,* he merely 
jerked her more closely to his side and she felt 
his hot breath upon her cheek. It was the fevered breath of a man who drinks much and 
late and almost nauseated her. 



 

" Come come,' whispered Travers. " I know 
you didn't go out there to meet any one it 
was just a natural impulse for a little adventure, 
wasn't it? And I deserve my reward for get- 
ting you home safely. Give me a kiss." 

Madeleine wrenched herself free, but he 
laughed and caught her again, this time in both 
arms. " Oh, you can't get away, and I'm going to have that kiss. Yes, a dozen, by Jove. 
You're the prettiest thing in San Francisco, 
and I'll get ahead of the other men there." 

His yellow distorted face — he looked like 



a satyr — was almost on hers. She freed herself once more with a dexterous twisting motion of her supple body, leaped to the front of 
the carriage and pounded on the window behind the driver. 

"For God's sake! You fool! What are 
you doing? Do you want a scandal? " 

The carriage stopped its erratic course so 
abruptly that he was thrown to the floor. 
Madeleine already had the door open. She had 
all the strength of youth and perfect health, 
and he was worn out and shaken. He was 
scrambling to his feet. She put her arms under his shoulders and threw him out into the 
road. 



 

"Go on! " she called to the driver. And 
as he whipped up the horses again, his Homeric laughter mingling with the curses of the 
man in the ditch, she sank back trembling and 
gasping. It was her first experience of the 
vileness of man, for the men of her day respected the women of their own class unless 
met half way, or, violently enamoured, given 
full opportunity to express their emotions. 

Moreover she had made a venomous enemy. 

What would Howard say? What would he 
do to the wretch? Horsewhip him? Would 
he stop to think of scandal? The road had been 
deserted. She knew that Travers would keep 
his humiliation to himself and the incidents 
that led up to itj but if she told her husband 
and he lost his head the story would come out 
and soon cease to bear any semblance to the 
truth. She wished she had some one to advise 
her. What did insulted women do ? 

But she could not think in this horrible carriage. It would be at least an hour before she 
saw Howard. She would bathe her face in 
cold water and try to think. 

The hack stopped again and the coachman left the box. 




 

" It's only a few blocks now, ma'am," he 
said, as he opened the door. " I haven't much 
time — " 

Madeleine almost sprang out. She opened 
her purse. He accepted the large bill with a 
grin on his good-natured face. 

« That's all right, Mrs. Talbot. I wouldn't 
have spoke of it nohow. The Doctor and me's 
old friends. But I'm just glad old Ben got 
what he deserved. The impudence of him! 
You — well ! — Good day, ma'am. " 

He paused as he was climbing back to the 
box. 

" If you don't mind my giving ye a bit of 
advice, Mrs. Talbot — I've seen a good bit of 
the world, I have — this is a hot city, all 
right — I just wouldn't say anything to the 
doctor. Trouble makes trouble. Better let it 
stop right here." 

" Thanks, Thomas. Good-by." 

And Madeleine strode down the street as if 
the furies pursued her. 



VI 



MADELEINE was spared the ordeal of 
confession  it was six weeks before she 
saw her husband again. He telegraphed at six 
o'clock that he had a small-pox patient and 
coiild not subject her to the risk of contagion. 
The disease most dreaded in San Francisco 
had arrived some time before and the pest 
house outside the city limits was already 
crowded. The next day yellow flags appeared 
before several houses. Before a week passed 
they had multiplied all over the city. People 
went about with visible camphor bags suspended 
from their necks, and Madeleine heard the 
galloping death wagon at all hours of the night. 
Howard telegraphed frequently and sent a 
doctor to revaccinate her, as the ^rus he had 
administered himself had not taken. She was 
not to worry about him as he vaccinated himself every day. Finally he commanded her to 
leave town, and she made a round of visits. 
She spent a fortnight at Rincona, Mrs. Abbott's place at Alta, in the San Mateo valley, 
and another with the Hathaways near by. 
Then, after a fortnight at the different 
"Springs" she settled down for the rest of 
the summer on the Ballinger ranch in the Santa 
Clara valley. All her hostesses had house 
parties, there were picnics by day and dancing 
or hay-rides at night. For the first time 
she saw the beautiful California country  the 
redwood forests on the mountains, the bare 
brown and golden hills, the great valleys with 
their forests of oaks and madroiias cleared 
here and there for orchard and vineyard  
knowing that Howard was safe she gave herself 
to pleasure once more. After all there was a 
certain satisfaction in the assurance that her 
husband could not be with her if he would. 
She was not deliberately neglected and it was 
positive that he never entered the Club. She 
told no one but Sally Ballinger of her adventure, and although Travers was a favorite of 
her mother, this devoted friend adroitly 
managed that the gentleman to whom she applied many excoriating adjectives should not be 
invited that summer to " the ranch.'' 




VII 



LANGDON MASTERS arrived in San 
Francisco during Madeleine's third winter. He did not come unheralded, for Travers 
bragged about him constantly and asserted that 
San Francisco could thank him for an editorial 
writer second to none in the United States of 
America. As a matter of fact it was on Masters' achievement alone that the editor of the 
Alta California had invited him to become a 
member of his staff. 

Masters was also a cousin of Alexander 
Groome, and arrived in San Francisco as a guest 
at the house on Ballinger Hill, a lonely outpost 
in the wastes of rock and sand in the west. 

There was no excitement in the female breast 
over his arrival for young men were abundant 
but Society was prepared to welcome him not 
only on accoimt of his distinguished connections 
but because his deliberate choice of San Francisco for his future career was a compliment 
they were quidc to appreciate. 



He came gaily to his fate filled with high 
hopes of owning his own newspaper before 
long and ranking as the leading journalist in 
the great little city made famous by gold and 
Bret Harte. He was one of many in New 
York  he knew that with his brilliant gifts and 
the immediate prominence his new position 
would give him the future was his to mould. 
No man, then or since, has brought so rare an 
assortment of talents to the erratic journalism 
of San Francisco; not even James King of 
William, the murdered editor of the Evening 
Bulletin. Perhaps he too would have been 
murdered had he remained long enough to 
own and edit the newspaper of his dreams, for 
he had a merciless irony, a fearless spirit, and 
an utter contempt for the prejudices of small 
men. But for a time at least it looked as if the 
history of journalism in San Francisco was to 
be one of California's proudest boasts. 

Masters was a practical visionary, a dreamer 
whose dreams never confused his metallic intellect, a stylist who fascinated even the poor 
mind forced to express itself in colloquialisms, 
a man of immense erudition for his years (he 
was only thirty) and he was insatiably interested in the affairs of the world and in every 
phase of life. He was a poet by natvire, and a 
journalist by profession because he believed the 
press was destined to become the greatest 
power in the country, and he craved not only 
power but the utmost opportunity for self- 
