for consigning men to ineptitude when they should be entering upon their
best period of usefulness, and philosophical as well as active enjoyment
of life.
"Science has defeated nature at many points.  The isolation of germs, the
discovery of toxins and serums, the triumph over diseases that once
wasted whole nations and brought about the fall of empires, the arrest of
infant mortality, the marvels of vivisection and surgery--the list is
endless.  It is entirely logical, and no more marvellous, that science
should be able to arrest senescence, put back the clock.  The wonder is
that it has not been done before."
She rose, still looking down at the fire, which Clavering had replenished
twice.  "I am going now.  And I have no fear that you will not keep your
promise!  But remember this when thinking it over: I do not merely look
young again, I am young.  I am not the years I have passed in this
world, I am the age of the rejuvenated glands in my body.  Some day we
shall have the proverb: 'A man is as old as his endocrines.'  Of course I
cannot have children.  The treatment is identical with that for
sterilization.  This consideration may influence you.  I shall use no
arguments nor seductions.  You will have decided upon all that before we
meet again.  Good night."  And she was gone.
XXX
It seemed to Clavering that he had run the gamut of the emotions while
listening to that brief biography, so sterilely told, but there had
also been times when he had felt as if suspended in a void even while
visited by flashes of acute consciousness that he was being called upon
to know himself for the first time in his life.  And in such fashion as
no man had ever been called upon to know himself before.
There was no precedent in life or in fiction to guide him, and he had
realized with a sensation of panic even while she talked that it was
doubtful if any one had ever understood himself since the dawn of time.
Man had certain standards, fixed beliefs, ideals, above all,
habits--how often they scattered to the winds under some unheralded or
teratogenic stress.  He had seen it more than once, and not only in
war.  Every man had at least two personalities that he was aware of,
and he dimly guessed at others.  Some were frank enough to admit that
they had not an idea what they would do in a totally unfamiliar
situation.  Clavering had sometimes emblemized man and his
personalities with the old game of the ivory egg.  A twist and the
outer egg revealed an inner.  Another and one beheld a third.  And so
on to the inner unmanipulatable sphere, which might stand for the
always inscrutable soul.  Like all intelligent men, he had a fair
knowledge of these two outer layers of personality, and he had
sometimes had a flashing glimpse of others, too elusive to seize and
put under the microscopic eye of the mind.
What did he know of himself?  He asked the question again as he sat in
his own deep chair in the early morning hours.  The heat in the hotel
had been turned off and he had lit the gas logs in the grate--symbol of
the artificialities of civilization that had played their insidious
rôle in man's outer and more familiar personality.  Perhaps they struck
deeper.  Habit more often than not dominated original impulse.
His own room, where he was nearly always alone, with its warm red
curtains and rug, the low bookcases built under his direction and
filled with his favorite books, the refectory table and other pieces of
dark old English oak that he had brought from home, and several family
portraits on the wall, restored his equilibrium and his brain was
abnormally clear.  He wondered if he ever would sleep again.  Better
think it over now.
Mary Zattiany as she talked had never changed her expression.  She
might have been some ancient oracle reciting her credo, and she seemed
to have narcotized that magnetic current that had always vibrated
between them.  Nevertheless, he had been fully aware that she felt like
nothing less than an oracle or the marble bust she looked, and that her
soul was racked and possibly fainting, but mastered by her formidable
will.
Formidable.  Did that word best express her?  Was she one of the
superwomen who could find no mate on earth and must look for her god on
another star?  He certainly was no superman himself to breathe on her
plane and mate that incarnate will.  Had she any human weakness?  Even
that subterranean sex-life in her past had not been due to weakness.
She was far too arrogant for that.  Life had been her foot-stool.  She
had kicked it about contemptuously.  Even her readjustments had been
the dictates of her imperious will.  And her pride!  She was a female
Lucifer in pride.
No doubt the men she had dismissed had been secretly relieved; stung
for the only time in their lives perhaps, with a sense of inferiority.
It must have been like receiving the casual favors of a queen on her
throne.  Well, she had got it in the neck once; there was some
satisfaction in that.  He wished he knew the man's name.  He'd hunt him
up and thank him in behalf of his sex.
For an hour he excoriated her, hated her, feared her, dissociating her
from the vast army of womanhood, but congratulating himself upon having
known her.  She was a unique if crucifying study.
With restored youth superimposed upon that exhaustive knowledge of
life--every phase of it that counted in her calculations--the
rejuvenation of all her great natural endowments, she'd probably go
back and rule Europe!  What use could she possibly have for any man?
He made himself a cup of coffee over his electric stove, turned off the
malodorous gas, which affected his head, stood out on his balcony for a
moment, then lit his pipe and felt in a more mellow mood.
After all, she had suffered as only a woman so liberally endowed could
suffer, and over a long period of years.  She had known despair and
humiliation and bewilderment, lethargic hopelessness, and finally a
complete sacrifice of self.  His imagination, in spite of his
rebellious soul, had furnished the background for that bald recital.
And she must have an indomitable soul, some inner super-fine spiritual
essence, with which arrogance and even pride had less to do than she
imagined.  Otherwise, after the life she had led, she would either have
become an imperious uncomfortable old woman or one of those faltering
non-entities crowded into the backwaters of life by a generation which
inspires them with nothing but timidity and disapproval.  Towering
individualities often go down to defeat in old age.
And nothing could alter the fact that she was the most beautiful and
the most wholly desirable woman he had ever known, the one woman who
had focussed every aspiration of his mind, his soul, and his body.  He
knew he must ask himself the inevitable question and face it without
blinking.  Was he appalled by her real age; could he ever get away from
the indubious fact that whatever miracle science may have effected, her
literal age was verging on sixty?  If she were not an old woman she had
been one.  That beautiful body had withered, undesired of all men, that
perfect face had been the battered mirror of an aged ego.  He did not
ask himself if the metamorphosis would last, if the shell might not
wither again tomorrow.  He was abreast of the important scientific
discoveries of his day and was not at all astonished that the problem
of senescence should be solved.  It was no more remarkable than
wireless, the Röntgen Ray, the properties of radium, or any one of the
beneficent contributions of science to the well-being of mankind that
were now too familiar for discussion.  He had heard a good deal of this
particular discovery as applied to men.  No doubt Dinwiddie and Osborne
would soon be appearing as gay young sparks on her doorstep.  It might
be the greatest discovery of all time, but it certainly would work both
ways.  While its economic value might be indisputable, and even, as she
had suggested, its spiritual, it would be hard on the merely young.
The mutual hatreds of capital and labor would sink into insignificance
before the antagonism between authentic youth and age inverted.  On the
other hand it might mean the millennium.  The threat of
overpopulation--for man's architectonic powers were restored if not
woman's; to say nothing of his prolonged sojourn--would at last rouse
the law-makers to the imperious necessity of eugenics, birth control,
sterilization of the unfit, and the expulsion of undesirable races.  It
might even stimulate youth to a higher level than satisfied it at
present.  Human nature might attain perfection.
However, he was in no mood for abstract speculation.  His own problem
was absorbing enough.
He might as well itemize the questions he had to face and examine them
one by one, and dispassionately.  He would never feel more emotionless
than now; and that mental state was very rare that enabled a man to
think clearly and see further than a yard ahead of him.
Her real age?  Could he ever forget it?  Should he not always see the
old face under the new mask, as the X-Rays revealed man's hideous
interior under its merciful covering of flesh?  But he knew that one of
the most beneficent gifts bestowed upon mankind is the talent for
forgetting.  Particularly when one object has been displaced by
another.  Reiteration dulls the memory.  He might say to himself every
hour in the day that she was sixty not thirty and the phrase would soon
become as meaningless as absent-minded replies to remarks about the
weather.
And he doubted if any man could look at Mary Zattiany for three
consecutive minutes and recall that she had ever been old, or imagine
that she ever could be old again.  However prone man may be to dream,
he is, unless one of the visionaries, dominated by the present.  What
he wants he wants now and he wants what he sees, not what may be
lurking in the future.  That is the secret of the early and often
imprudent marriage--the urge of the race.  And if a man is not deterred
by mere financial considerations, still less is he troubled by visions
of what his inamorata will look like thirty years hence or what she
might have looked like had disease prematurely withered her.  He sees
what he sees and if he is satisfied at all he is as completely
satisfied as a man may be.
He made no doubt that Mary Zattiany would have, if she chose, as many
suitors among men of his own age as among her former contemporaries.
They would discuss the phenomenon furiously, joke about it, try to
imagine her as she had been, back water, return out of curiosity,
hesitate, speculate--and then forget it.
No one would forget it sooner than himself.  He had no doubt whatever
that when he went to her house tomorrow afternoon he would remember as
long as she kept him waiting and no longer.  So that was that.
Did he want children?  They charmed him--sometimes--but he had never
been conscious of any desire for a brood of his own.  He knew that many
men felt an even profounder need of offspring than women.  Man's ego is
more strident, the desire to perpetuate itself more insistent, his
foresight is more extended.  Moreover, however subconsciously, his
sense of duty to the race is stronger. . . .  But he doubted if any man
would weigh the repetition of his ego against his ego's demand to mate
with a woman like Mary Zattiany.  He certainly would not.  That was
final.
What was it she demanded in love, that she had sought so ardently and
ever missed?  Could he give it to her?  Was she merely glamored once
more, caught up again in the delusions of youth, with her revivified
brain and reawakened senses, and this time only because the man was of
a type novel in her cognizance of men?  Useless to plead the urge of
the race in her case. . . .  Nevertheless, many women, denied the power
of reproduction fell as mistakenly in love as the most fertile of their
sisters.  But hardly a woman of Mary Zattiany's exhaustive experience!
She certainly should know her own mind.  Her instincts by this time
must be compounded of technical knowledge, not the groping inherited
flashes playing about the shallow soil of youth. . . .  If her
instincts had centred on him there must be some deeper meaning than
passion or even intellectual homology.  After all, their conversations,
if vital, had been few in number.
Perhaps she had found, with her mind's trained antennae, some one of
those hidden layers of personality which she alone could reveal to
himself.  What was it?  She wanted far more than love-making and mental
correspondence.  What was it?  He wished he knew.  Tenderness?  He
could give her that in full measure.  Sentiment?  He was no
sentimentalist, but he believed that he possessed the finer quality.
Fidelity?  That was not worth consideration.  Appreciation of the
deepest and best in her, sympathetic understanding of all her mistakes
and of all that she had suffered?  She knew the answer as well as he
did.  The ability to meet her in many moods, never to weary her with
monotony?  He was a man of many moods himself.  What had saved him from
early matrimony was a certain monotony in women, the cleverest of them.
But there must be something beyond, some subtle spiritual demand,
developed throughout nearly twice as many years as he had dwelt on
earth; born not only of an aspiring soul and terrible disenchantments,
but of a wisdom that only years of deep and living experience, no mere
intelligence, however brilliant, could hope to assemble.  He was
thirty-four.  There was no possible question that at fifty-eight, if he
lived sanely, and his intellectual faculties had progressed unimpaired,
he would look back upon thirty-four as the nonage of life--when the
future was a misty abyss of wisdom whose brink he had barely trod.  She
herself was an abyss of wisdom.  How in God's name could he ever cross
it?  Her body might be young again, but never her mind.  Never her
mind!  And then he had a flash of insight.  Perhaps he alone could
rejuvenate that mind.
Certainly he could make her forget.  Men and women would be aged at
thirty, but for this beneficent gift of forgetting. . . .  He could
make the present vivid enough.
He explored every nook of those personalities of his, determined to
discover if he felt any sense of inferiority to this woman who knew so
much more, had lived and thought and felt so much more, than
himself--whom he still visioned on a plane above and apart.  No woman
was ever more erudite in the most brilliant and informing declensions
of life, whatever the disenchantments, and for thirty years she had
known in varying degrees of intimacy the ablest and most distinguished
men in Europe.  She had been at no pains to conceal her opinion of
their intellectual superiority over American men. . . .
He concluded dispassionately that he never could feel inferior to any
woman.  Women might arrest the attention of the world with their
talents, change laws and wring a better deal out of life than man had
accorded them in the past, but whatever their gifts and whatever their
achievements they always had been and always would be, through their
physical disabilities, their lack of ratiocination, of constructive
ability on the grand scale, the inferiors of men.  The rare exceptions
but proved the rule, and no doubt they had been cast in one mould and
finished in another.
In sheer masculine arrogance he was more than her match.  Moreover,
there were other ways of keeping a woman subject.
Did he love her?  Comprehensively and utterly?  Clear thinking fled
with the last of his doubts. . . .  And when a man detaches himself
from the gross material surface of life and wings to the realm of the
imagination, where he glimpses immortality, what matter the penalty?
Any penalty?  Few had the thrice blessed opportunity.  If he were one
of the chosen, the very demi-gods, jeering at mortals, would hate him.
And then abruptly he fell asleep.
XXXI
He went direct from the office that evening to Mrs. Oglethorpe's house
in Gramercy Park.  During the morning he had received the following
note from her, and he had puzzled over it at intervals ever since.
"Dear Lee:
"Will you dine alone with an old woman tonight--a rather bewildered and
upset old woman?  I suppose to the young nothing is too new and strange
for readjustment, but I have hardly known where I am these last few
days.  You are the only friend I care to talk to on the subject, for
you always understand.  I am probably older than your mother and I look
old enough to be your grandmother, but you are the only person living
with whom I ever feel inclined to lay aside all reserve.  Old men are
fossils and young men regard me as an ancient wreck preserved by family
traditions.  As for women I hate them and always did.  Do come and dine
with a lonely puzzled old woman unless you have an engagement
impossible to break.  Don't bother to dress.
"Your affectionate old friend,
  "JANE OGLETHORPE."
"What's up?" Clavering had thought as he finished it.  "Mary or Janet?"
It was an extraordinary letter to receive from Mrs. Oglethorpe, the
most fearsome old woman in New York.  To Clavering she had always shown
the softer side of her nature and he knew her perhaps better, or at all
events more intimately, than any of her old friends, for she had not
treated him as a negligible junior even when he arrived in New York at
the tender age of twenty-two.  His ingenuous precocity had amused her
and she had discovered a keen interest in the newspaper world of whose
existence she had hardly been aware; no interviewer had ever dared
approach her; and as he grew older, developing rapidly and more and
more unlike her sons and her sons' friends, they had fallen into an
easy pallish intimacy, were frank to rudeness, quarrelled furiously,
but fed each other's wisdom and were deeply attached.  During the war
she had knitted him enough socks and sweaters to supply half his
regiment; and when he had left the hospital after a serious attack of
influenza it had been for the house in Gramercy Park, where he could
have remained indefinitely had he wished.
But in all the years of their intimacy never before had she "broken,"
given a hint that she felt the long generation between them.  He found
her more interesting in talk than any girl, except when he was briefly
in love, and her absence of vanity, her contempt for sentiment in any
of its forms, filled him with a blessed sense of security as he spent
hours stretched out on the sofa in her upstairs sitting-room, smoking
and discussing the universe.  She was not an intellectual woman, but
she was sharp and shrewd, a monument of common sense and worldly
wisdom.  It would be as easy to hoodwink her as the disembodied
Minerva, and it was doubtful if any one made even a tentative attempt.
Clavering wondered which of those inner secret personalities was to be
revealed tonight.
As he stood in the drawing-room waiting for her to come down he
examined for the first time in many years the full-length picture of
her painted shortly before her marriage to James Oglethorpe.  She was
even taller than Mary Zattiany and in the portrait her waist was round
and disconcertingly small to the modern therapeutic eye.  But the whole
effect of the figure was superb and dashing, the poise of the head was
almost defiant, and the hands were long, slender, and very white
against the crimson satin of her gown.  She looked as if about to lead
a charge of cavalry, although, oddly enough, her full sensuous mouth
with its slightly protruding lower lip was pouting.  Beautiful she had
never been; the large bony structure of her face was too uncoverable,
her eyes too sharp and sardonic; but handsome certainly, and, no doubt,
for many years after she had stood for this portrait in the full
insolence of her young womanhood.  She retained not a trace of that
handsomeness today.  Her hands were skinny, large-veined, discolored by
moth patches, and her large aquiline nose rose from her sunken cheeks
like the beak of an old eagle--an indomitable old eagle.  Many women of
sixty-eight had worn far better, but looks need care, spurred by
vanity, and she had a profound contempt for both.  No doubt if she had
made a few of the well-known feminine concessions would have looked at
least ten years younger than her age, for she had never had a day's
illness: eight lyings-in were not, in her case, to be counted as
exceptions.  No doubt, thought Clavering, as he turned to greet her,
she had thought it quite enough to be imposing.
She certainly looked imposing tonight in spite of her old-fashioned
corsets and her iron-gray hair arranged in flat rolls and puffs on the
precise top of her head, for although flesh had accumulated lumpily on
her back, her shoulders were still unbowed, her head as haughtily
poised as in her youth, and the long black velvet gown with yellow old
point about the square neck (the neck itself covered, like the throat,
with net), and falling over her hands, became her style if not the
times.
"Well, Lee!" she said drily.  "I suppose when you got my note you
thought I had gone bug-house, as my fastidious granddaughter Janet
would express it.  But that is the way I felt and that is the way I
feel at the present moment."
"Dear Lady Jane!  Whatever it is, here I am to command, as you see.
There is no engagement I wouldn't have broken----"
"You are a perfect dear, and if I were forty years younger I should
marry you.  However, we'll come to that later.  I want to talk to you
about that damnable little Janet first--we'll have to go in now."
When they were seated at a small table at one end of the immense
dining-room she turned to the butler and said sharply:
"Get out, Hawkins, and stay out except when we can't get on without
you."  And Hawkins, whom a cataclysm would not have ruffled after
forty-five years in Mrs. Oglethorpe's service, vanished.
"Jim said he had a talk with you about Janet, and that you advised him
to spank her," she said.  "Well, he did."
"What?"  Clavering gave a delighted grin.  "I never believed he'd do
it."
"Nor I.  Thought his will had grown as flabby as his body.  But when
she stood up to him and with a cool insolence, which she may or may not
have inherited from me, or which may be merely part and parcel of the
new manner, and flung in his face a good deal more than he knew
already, and asked him what he was going to do about it, he turned her
over his knee and took a hair-brush to her."
"It must have been a tussle.  I suppose she kicked and scratched?"
"She was so astonished that at first she merely ejaculated: 'Oh, by
Jimminy!'  Then she fought to get away and when she found she couldn't
she began to blubber, exactly as she did when she was not so very much
younger and was spanked about once a day.  That hurt his feelings, for
he's as soft as mush, and he let her go; but he locked her up in her
room and there she stays until she promises to behave herself as girls
did in his time.  I'm afraid it won't work.  She hasn't promised yet,
but merely hisses at him through the keyhole.  D'you understand this
new breed?  I'm afraid none of the rest of us do."
"I can't say I've been interested enough to try.  Janet informed me
that they were going the pace because they couldn't hold the men any
other way.  But I fancy it's merely a part of the general unrest which
is the usual aftermath of war.  This was a very long war, and the young
seem to have made up their minds that the old who permitted it are
bunglers and criminals and idiots and that it is up to them to
demonstrate their contempt."
"And what good do they think that will do them?"  Mrs. Oglethorpe's
face and inflection betrayed no sympathy with the Younger Generation.
"You don't suppose they worry their little heads with analysis, do you?
Somebody started the idea and the rest followed like sheep.  No doubt
it had its real origin in the young men who did the fighting and saw
their comrades do the dying, and all the kudus carried off by the old
men who ran no risks.  They are very bitter.  And women generally take
their cues from men, little as they suspect it.  However, whatever the
cause, here it is, and what to do about it I've no more idea than you;
but I should think it would be a good idea for Jim to take her abroad
for a year."
"I don't see Jim giving up his clubs and sports, and tagging round the
world after a flapper.  He never took himself very seriously as a
parent . . . still, he is really alarmed. . . .  Are you going to marry
Marian Lawrence?"
"Do you think I'd engage myself to any one without telling you first of
all?"
"Better not.  Are you in love with her?"
"No."
"I'm told you were devoted to her at one time.  That was one of the
times when I saw little or nothing of you."
"I've been devoted to quite a number of girls, first and last, but
there's really been nothing in it on either side.  I know what you're
driving at.  Shoot."
"Yes, Jim said he told you.  Well, I've changed my mind.  Janet's a
little fool, perhaps worse.  Not half good enough for you and would
devil the life out of you before you got rid of her in self-defence.
Let her hoe her own row.  How about that writing person, Gora Dwight,
you and Din are always talking about?"
"Never been the ghost of a flirtation.  She's all intellect and
ambition.  I enjoy going there for I'm almost as much at home with her
as I am with you."
"Ha!  Harmless.  I hope she's as flattered as I am.  There remains Anne
Goodrich.  She's handsome, true to her traditions in every way--Marian
Lawrence is a hussy unless I'm mistaken and I usually am not--she has
talent and she has cultivated her mind.  She will have a fortune and
would make an admirable wife in every way for an ambitious and gifted
man.  More pliable than Marian, too.  You're as tyrannical and
conceited as all your sex and would never get along with any woman who
wasn't clever enough to pretend to be submissive while twisting you
round her little finger.  I rather favor Anne."
Clavering was beginning to feel uneasy.  What was she leading up to?
Who next?  But he replied with a humorous smile:
"Dearest Lady Jane!  Why are you suddenly determined to marry me off?
Are you anxious to get rid of me?  Marriage plays the very devil with
friendships."
"Only for a year or so.  And I really think it is time you were
settling yourself.  To tell you the truth I worry about you a good
deal.  You're a sentimental boy at heart and chivalrous and
impressionable, although I know you think you're a seasoned old
rounder.  Men are children, the cleverest of them, in a scheming
woman's hands."
"But I don't know any scheming women and I'm really not as irresistible
as you seem to think.  Besides, I assure you, I have fairly keen
intuitions and should run from any unprincipled female who thought it
worth while to cast her nets in my direction."
"Intuitions be damned.  They haven't a chance against beauty and
finesse.  Don't men as clever as yourself make fools of themselves over
the wrong woman every day in the week?  The cleverer a man is the less
chance he has, for there's that much more to play on by a cleverer
woman.  It would be just like you to fall in love with a woman older
than yourself and marry her----"
"For God's sake, Jane, cut out my fascinating self!  It's a subject
that bores me to tears.  Fire away about Janet.  How long's she been
shut up?  What will Jim do next?  I'll do my best to persuade him to
take her round the world.  He'd enjoy it himself for there are clubs in
every port and some kind of sport.  I'll look him up tomorrow."
Mrs. Oglethorpe gave him a sharp look but surrendered.  When he shouted
"Jane" at her in precisely the same tone as he often exploded "Jim" to
her son, she found herself suddenly in a mood to deny him nothing.
XXXII
They went up to her sitting-room to spend the rest of the evening.  It
was a large high room overlooking the park and furnished in massive
walnut and blood-red brocade: a room as old-fashioned and ugly as its
mistress but comfortable withal.  On a table in one corner was an
immense family Bible, very old, and recording the births, marriages,
and deaths of the Van den Poeles from the time they began their
American adventures in the seventeenth century.  On another small table
in another corner was a pile of albums, the lowest containing the first
presentments of Mrs. Oglethorpe's family after the invention of
calotype photography.  These albums recorded fashion in all its stages
from 1841 down to the sport suit, exposed legs and rolled stockings of
Janet Oglethorpe; a photograph her grandmother had sworn at but
admitted as a curiosity.
One of the albums was devoted to the friends of Mrs. Oglethorpe's
youth, and Mary Ogden occupied the place of honor.  Clavering had once
derived much amusement looking over these old albums and listening to
Mrs. Oglethorpe's running and often sarcastic comment; but although he
had recalled to mind this photograph the night Mr. Dinwiddie had been
so perturbed by the stranger's resemblance to the flame of his youth,
he had, himself, been so little interested in Mary Ogden that it had
not occurred to him to disinter that old photograph of the eighties and
examine it in detail.  He turned his back squarely on it tonight,
although he had a misgiving that it was not Janet who had inspired Mrs.
Oglethorpe's singular note.
On one wall was a group of daguerreotypes, hideous but rare and
valuable.  An oil painting of James Oglethorpe, long dead, hung over
the fireplace; an amiable looking gentleman with long side-whiskers
sprouting out of plump cheeks, a florid complexion, and the expression
of a New Yorker who never shirked his civic obligations, his
chairmanships of benevolent institutions, nor his port.  Opposite was
another oil painting of young James taken at the age of twelve, wearing
a sailor suit and the surly expression of an active boy detained within
walls while other boys were shouting in the park.  Beside it was a
water color of Janet at the age of two, even then startlingly like her
grandmother.  She had been Mrs. Oglethorpe's favorite descendant until
the resemblance had become too accentuated by modern divagations.
Clavering did not extend himself on the sofa tonight but drew a leather
chair (built for Mr. Oglethorpe) to the small coal grate, which
inadequately warmed the large room.  Mrs. Oglethorpe, like many women
of her generation, never indulged her backbone save in bed, and she
seated herself in her own massive upright chair not too close to the
fire.  She had made a concession to time in the rest of the house,
which was lighted by electricity, but the gas remained in her own
suite, and the room was lit by faint yellow flames struggling through
the ground-glass globes of four-side brackets.  The light from the
coals was stronger, and as it fell on her bony austere old face with
its projecting beak, Clavering reflected that she needed only a
broomstick.  He really loved her, but a trained faculty works as
impersonally as a camera.
He smoked in silence and Mrs. Oglethorpe stared into the fire.  She,
too, was fond of her cigar, but tonight she had shaken her head as
Hawkins had offered the box, after passing the coffee.  Her face no
longer looked sardonic, but relaxed and sad.  Clavering regarded her
with uneasy sympathy.  Would it be possible to divert her mind?
"Lady Jane," he began.
"I wish you would call me Jane tonight.  I wouldn't feel so intolerably
old."
"Of course I'll call you Jane, but you'll never be old.  What skeleton
have you been exhuming?"  He was in for it and might as well give her a
lead.
"It's Mary Ogden," she said abruptly and harshly.
"Oh--I wondered how you felt about it.  You certainly have been
splendid----"
"What else could I do?  She was the most intimate friend of my youth,
the only woman I ever had any real affection for.  I had already seen
her and recognized her.  I suppose she has told you that I went there
and that she treated me like an intruding stranger.  But I knew she
must have some good reason for it--possibly that she was here on some
secret political mission and had sworn to preserve her incognito.  I
knew she had been mixed up in politics more than once.  I thought I was
going mad when I saw her, but I never suspected the truth.  The light
was dim and I took for granted that some one of those beauty experts
had made a mask for her, or ripped her skin off--I hardly knew what to
think, so I concluded not to think about it at all, and succeeded
fairly well in dismissing it from my mind.  I was deeply hurt at her
lack of confidence in me, but I dismissed that, too.  After all it was
her right.  I do as I choose, why shouldn't she?  And I remembered that
she always did."
Here Clavering stirred uneasily.
"When she came to me here last Tuesday and told me the whole truth I
felt as if I were listening to a new chapter out of the Bible, but on
the whole I was rather pleased than otherwise.  I had never been
jealous of her when we were young, for I was married before she came
out, and she was so lovely to look at that I was rather grateful to her
than otherwise.  After her marriage I used to meet her every few years
in Europe up to some three or four years before the outbreak of the
war, and it often made me feel melancholy as I saw her beauty
going . . . until there was nothing left but her style and her hair.
But nothing else was to be expected.  Time is a brute to all
women. . . .  So, while she sat here in this room so radiantly
beautiful and so exquisitely and becomingly dressed, and leaning toward
me with that old pleading expression I remembered so well; when she
wanted something and knew exactly how to go to work to get it; and
looking not a day over thirty--well, while she was here I felt young
again myself and I loved her as much as ever and felt it a privilege to
look at her.  I arranged a luncheon promptly to meet several of her old
friends and put a stop to the clacking that was going on--I had been
called up eight times that morning. . . .  I could have boxed your
ears, but of course it was a natural enough thing to do, and you had no
suspicion. . . .  Well, as soon as she had gone I wrote to twelve
women, giving them a bare sketch of the truth, and sent the notes off
in the motor.  And then--I went and looked at myself in the glass."
She paused, and Clavering rose involuntarily and put his hand on her
shoulder.
"Never mind, Jane," he said awkwardly.  "What does it matter?  You are
you and there's only one of the kind.  After all it's only one more
miracle of Science.  You could do it yourself if you liked."
"I?  Ha!  With twenty-three grandchildren.  I may be a fool but I'm not
a damn fool, as James used to say.  What good would it do me to look
forty?  I had some looks left at that age but with no use for them as
women go.  I'd have less now.  But Mary was always lucky--a daughter of
the gods.  It's just like her damned luck to have that discovery made
in her time and while she is still young enough to profit by it,
besides being as free as when she was Mary Ogden.  Now, God knows what
devilment she'll be up to.  What she wants she'll have and the devil
take the consequences."  She patted his hand.  "Go and sit down, Lee.
I've a good deal more to say."
Clavering returned to his seat with no sense of the old chair's
comfort, and she went on in a moment.
"The unfairness of it as I looked at that old witch in the glass that
had reflected my magnificent youth, seemed to me unendurable.  I had
lived a virtuous and upright life.  I knew damned well she hadn't.  I
had done my duty by the race and my own and my husband's people, and I
had brought up my sons to be honorable and self-respecting men,
whatever their failings, and my daughters in the best traditions of
American womanhood.  They are model wives and mothers, and they have
made no weak-kneed concessions to these degenerate times.  They bore me
but I'd rather they did that than disgrace me.  Mary never had even one
child, although her husband must have wanted an heir.  I have lived a
life of duty--duty to my family traditions, my husband, my children, my
country, and to Society: she one of self-indulgence and pleasure and
excitement, although I'm not belittling the work she did during the
war.  But noblesse oblige.  What else could she do?  And now, she'll be
at it again.  She'll have the pick of our young men--I don't know
whether it's all tragic or grotesque.  She'll waste no time on those
men who loved her in her youth--small blame to her.  Who wants to
coddle old men?  They've all got something the matter with 'em. . . .
But she'll have love--love--if not here--and thank God, she's not
remaining long--then elsewhere and wherever she chooses.  Love!  I too
once took a fierce delight in making men love me.  It seems a thousand
years ago.  What if I should try to make a man fall in love with me
today?  I'd be rushed off by my terrified family to a padded cell."
"Well--Jane----"
"Don't 'well Jane' me!  You'd jump out of the window if I suddenly
began to make eyes at you.  I could rely on your manners.  You wouldn't
laugh until you struck the grass and then you'd be arrested for
disturbing the peace.  Well--don't worry.  I'm not an old ass.  But I'm
a terribly bewildered old woman.  It seems to me there has been a
crashing in the air ever since she sat in that chair. . . .  Growing
old always seemed to me a natural process that no arts or dodges could
interrupt, and any attempt to arrest the processes of nature was an
irreverent gesture in the face of Almighty God.  It was immoral and
irreverent, and above all it showed a lack of humor and of sound common
sense.  The world, my candid grandchild tells me, laughs at the women
of my generation for their old-fashioned 'cut.'  But we have our code
and we have the courage to live up to it.  That is one reason, perhaps,
why growing old has never meant anything to me but reading-spectacles,
two false teeth, and weak ankles.  It had seemed to me that my life had
been pretty full--I never had much imagination--what with being as good
a wife as ever lived--although James was a pompous bore if there ever
was one--bringing eight children into the world and not making a
failure of one of them, never neglecting my charities or my social
duties or my establishments.  As I have grown older I have often
reflected upon a life well-spent, and looked forward to dying when my
time came with no qualms whatever, particularly as there was precious
little left for me to do except give parties for my grandchildren and
blow them up occasionally.  I never labored under the delusion that I
had an angelic disposition or a perfect character, but I had always
had, and maintained, certain standards; and, according to my lights, it
seemed to me that when I arrived at the foot of the throne the Lord
would say to me 'Well done, thou good and faithful servant.'  The only
thing I ever regretted was that I wasn't a man."
She paused and then went on in a voice that grew more raucous every
moment.  "That was later.  It's a long time since I've admitted even to
myself that there was a period--after my husband's death--when I hated
growing old with the best of them.  I was fifty and I found myself with
complete liberty for the first time in my life; for the elder children
were all married, and the younger in Europe at school.  I had already
begun to look upon myself as an old woman. . . .  But I soon made the
terrible discovery that the heart never grows old.  I fell in love four
times.  They were all years younger than myself and I'd have opened one
of my veins before I'd have let them find it out.  Even then I had as
little use for old men as old men have for old women.  Whatever it may
be in men, it's the young heart in women.  I had no illusions.  Fifty
is fifty.  My complexion was gone, my stomach high, and I had the face
of an old war horse.  But--and here is the damned trick that nature
plays on us--I hoped--hoped--I dreamed--and as ardently as I ever had
dreamed in my youth, when I was on the look-out for the perfect knight
and before I compromised on James Oglethorpe, who was handsome before
he grew those whiskers and got fat--yes, as ardently as in my youth I
dreamed that these clever intelligent men would look through the old
husk and see only the young heart and the wise brain--I knew that I
could give them more than many a younger woman.  But if beauty is only
skin deep the skin is all any man wants, the best of 'em.  They treated
me with the most impeccable respect--for the first time in my life I
hated the word--and liked my society because I was an amusing caustic
old woman.  Of course they drifted off, either to marry, or because I
terrified them with my sharp tongue: when I loved them most and felt as
if I had poison in my veins.  Well, I saved my pride, at all events.
"By the time you came along I had sworn at myself once for all as an
old fool, and, in any case, I would hardly have been equal to falling
in love with a brat of twenty-two."
She seized the stick that always rested against her chair and thumped
the floor with it.  "Nevertheless," she exclaimed with savage contempt,
"my heart is as young today as Mary Ogden's.  That is the appalling
discovery I have made this week.  I'd give my immortal soul to be
thirty again--or look it.  Why in heaven's name did nature play us this
appalling dirty trick?"
"But Jane!"  He felt like tearing his hair.  What was Mary Zattiany's
tragedy to this?  Banalities were the only refuge.  "Remember that at
thirty you were in love with your husband and bent on having a
family----"
"I meant thirty and all I know now. . . .  I'm not so damn sure I'd
have tried to make myself think I was in love with James--who had about
as much imagination as a grasshopper and the most infernal mannerisms.
I'd have found out what love and life meant, that's what!  And when I
did I'd have sent codes and traditions to the devil."
"Oh, no, you would not.  If you'd had it in you you'd have done it,
anyhow.  All women of your day were not virtuous--not by a long sight.
I'll admit that your best possibilities have been wasted; I've always
thought that.  You have a terrific personality and if you were at your
maturity in this traditionless era you'd be a great national figure,
not a mere social power.  But nature in a fit of spite launched you too
soon and the cast-iron traditions were too strong for you.  It was the
epoch of the submerged woman."
"Mary Ogden was brought up in those same cast-iron traditions."
"Yes, but Madame Zattiany belongs to a class of women that derive less
from immediate ancestors than from a legendary race of sirens--not so
merely legendary, perhaps, as we think.  Convention is only a flexible
harness for such women and plays no part whatever in their secret
lives."
"You're in love with Mary."
"Don't come back to me.  I won't have it.  For the moment I don't
feel as if I had an atom of personality left, I'm so utterly absorbed
in you; and I'd give my immortal soul to help you."
"Yes, I know that.  I wouldn't be turning myself inside out if I
didn't.  I've never talked to a living soul as I've talked to you
tonight and I never shall again."
She stared at him for a moment, and then she burst into a loud laugh.
It was awe-inspiring, that laugh.  Lucifer in hell, holding his sides
at the futilities of mankind, could not have surpassed it.  "What a
mess!  What a mess!  Life!  Begins nowhere, ends nowhere."  She went on
muttering to herself, and then, abruptly, she broke into the sarcastic
speech which her friends knew best.
"Lord, Lee, I wish you could have been behind a screen at that
luncheon.  Thirteen old tombstones in feathers and net collars--seven
or eight of 'em, anyhow--colonial profiles and lorgnettes, and all
looking as if they'd been hit in the stomach.  I at one end of the
table looking like the Witch of Endor, Mary at the other looking like
one of our granddaughters and trying to be animated and intimate.  I
forgot my own tragedy and haw-hawed three times.  She looked almost
apologetic when she called us by our first names, especially when she
used the diminutive.  Polly Vane, who's got a head like a billiard ball
and has to wear a wig for decency's sake, drew herself up twice and
then relaxed with a sickly grin. . . .  All the same I don't think Mary
felt any more comfortable or liked it much better than the rest of us.
Too much like reading your own epitaph on a tombstone.  I thought I saw
her squirm."
"How did they take it individually?"  Clavering hoped she was finally
diverted.  "Were they jealous and resentful?"
"Some.  Elinor Goodrich had always been too besottedly fond of her to
mind.  Others, who had been merely admirers and liked her, were--well,
it's too much to say they were enchanted to see Mary looking not a day
over thirty, but they were able to endure it.  Isabel Lawrence thought
it downright immoral, and Polly Vane looked as if she had fallen into a
stinking morass and only refrained from holding her nose out of
consideration for her hostess.  I think she feels that Mary's return is
an insult to New York.  Lily Tracy was painfully excited.  No doubt
she'll begin collecting for the Vienna poor at once and finding it
necessary to go over and distribute the funds in person.  Mary lost no
time getting in her fine work for Vienna relief."
"But they'll all stand by her?"
"Oh, yes, she's Mary Ogden.  We'd be as likely to desert New York
itself because we didn't like the mayor.  And she'll need us.  It's the
young women she'll have to look out for.  My God!  How they'll hate
her.  As for Anne Goodrich and Marian Lawrence----"
Clavering sprang to his feet.  "Who's that?  Jim?"
A man was running up the stairs.
"Janet," said Mrs. Oglethorpe grimly.  "She's out."
XXXIII
  "Don't be a flat tyre,
  Don't be a dumb-bell;
  Run from the dumb ducks,
  Run from the plumbers.
  Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!"
Oglethorpe pounded on the door with his stick.  There was a sudden hush
in the room, then a wild scurry and a slamming door.  He rattled the
knob and, to his surprise, for he had assumed that these wild parties
of his young friends were soundly barricaded, the door opened.
There were only four young men standing about a table covered with the
remains of a chafing dish supper and many champagne bottles, but an
excited whispering came through the partition.  Young Farren was
leaning against the table, his large moon-face pallid with fright.  As
he recognized Oglethorpe and Clavering fright was wiped out by
astonishment and relief.
"Thought you were the police," he muttered.  "Though they've got no
business here----"
"I've come for Janet.  Go into that room and bring her out at once."
"Janet ain't here.  Haven't seen Janet for a week.  Tried to get her on
the 'phone early this afternoon and couldn't----"
"If you don't go into that room and fetch her, I will."  As he started
for the inner door, Farren with drunken dignity opposed his broad bulk.
"Now, Mr. Oglethorpe, you wouldn't do that.  Ladies in there.  Chorus
girls----"
"That's a lie.  Stand aside."
Farren, who was very young and very drunk, but who had a rudimentary
sense of responsibility where girls of his own class were concerned,
burst into tears.  "You wouldn't, Mr. Oglethorpe!  I swear to God
Janet's not there.  But--but--some of her friends are.  They wouldn't
want you to see them."  His mood changed to righteous indignation.
"What right you got breaking into a gentleman's rooms like a damned
policeman?  It's an outrage and if I had a gun I'd shoot you.
I'd--I'd----"  And then he collapsed on a chair and was very sick.
Oglethorpe turned to Clavering, who had thought it best to remain in
the hall and watch other exits.  "Just stay there, will you?"  He
turned to the three gaping youngsters.  "You dare make a move and I'll
knock your heads together.  Just remember that you're drunk and I'm
sober."
He went into the next room, and immediately saw several forms under the
bed.  He reached down and jerked them out by their legs.  They rolled
over, covering their faces and sobbing with fright.  Emancipated as
they were and disdainful of pre-war parents, when it came to late
parties in a bachelor's rooms they exercised strategy to slip out, not
defiance.
"Oh, Mr. Oglethorpe," gasped one convulsively.  "Don't tell on us,
p-l-e-a-s-e."
"I've no intention of telling on you.  You can go to the devil in your
own way for all I care.  I'm after Janet----"
"She's not here----"
"That's what I'm going to find out."  He opened the door of a wardrobe
and another girl tumbled into his arms, shrieked, and flung herself
face downward on the bed.  But it was not Janet.  He investigated every
corner of the apartment and then returned to Clavering, slamming the
door behind him.
"She's not there, Lee," he said, leaning heavily against the wall.
"Where in God's name is she?  I don't know where to look next.  This is
her particular gang.  She has no other intimates that I know of.  But
what do I know about her, anyway?"
"You're sure she isn't hiding anywhere at home?"
"Searched the house from top to bottom."
"I suppose it isn't likely that she's gone to any of her aunts."
"Good Lord, no.  She'd take a chance on mother, but never with any of
the rest of the family, and she's got no money.  I saw to that.  D'you
suppose she's roaming the streets?"
"Well, she can't roam long; legs will give out.  Perhaps she's home by
now or at Mrs. Oglethorpe's.  Better telephone."
They went out and found a public telephone.  Janet had not been seen
nor heard from.
"You don't think it's going to be another Dorothy Arnold case?" gasped
Oglethorpe, who seemed completely unnerved.
"Good Heavens no, Jim!  And she's able to take care of herself.  Nobody
better.  She'll give you a scare and then turn up--with her thumb at
her nose, likely.  Better come up to my rooms and have a drink."
"Orright.  I can't go home and I don't want to be alone anywhere.  I'd
go out of my senses.  Anything might happen to her, and I shan't call
in the police until the last minute.  Filthy scandal."
"Police?  Certainly not.  And as Janet is cold sober, be sure she'll
come to no harm."
A few moments later they were in the lift ascending to Clavering's
rooms.  "Hullo!" he said, as he opened the door of his little hall.
"The fool maid has left the light on," and, as they entered the
living-room, "what the devil--"  Cigarette smoke hung in the air.
[Illustration: It took a lot of self possession and grit for Zattiany
(Corinne Griffith) and Clavering (Conway Tearle) to hide their feelings
when she alighted to go to the ship which was to return her to Europe.
