He refused to do so."
"I told Mr. Parasyte that I would apologize to him," I interposed,
addressing our leader.
"That wasn't enough," replied the principal.
"At the time, sir, you knew Poodles had confessed that he alone was to
blame for the affair on the pier. Thornton was innocent; and it had
been fairly proved to you that he was innocent. Poodles himself
assured you of the fact, and his evidence was fully confirmed by
Pearl. In the face of this overwhelming proof, you attempted to flog
Thornton into apologizing for that of which you knew he was not
guilty. No boy with a soul would submit to be flogged under such
circumstances. I would not, and I have no respect for any fellow that
would. No boy was ever yet flogged in the Institute, and it was an
outrage to attempt such a thing."
Vallington was quite eloquent, and Mr. Parasyte actually quailed as he
poured out his feelings in well-chosen words, and with an emphasis
which forced their meaning home to the heart. The tyrant had gone too
far to recede. He did what weak, low-minded men always do under such
circumstances--he got furiously angry, and delivered himself in
abusive terms. He declared that Poodles and Pearl had been frightened
into their confession, and persisted in saying that I had caused the
quarrel on the pier.
"But it is no use to reason with you. I am going to compel obedience
now. If you will not mind, I shall make you mind," foamed he, stamping
the ground in his rage.
"We have nothing to say, sir, except that we shall defend ourselves
from assaults of all kinds," added Vallington.
"Assaults! How dare you use that word to me! I am in the lawful
exercise of my authority as the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute. You were committed to my care by your parents, and I shall
do my duty by you. As to Thornton, his case shall be settled by the
court. Mr. Greene, you have a warrant for his arrest."
"Yes, I have," replied the deputy sheriff, with a broad grin.
"That's the boy," continued Mr. Parasyte, furiously, as he pointed to
me.
My companions were evidently disconcerted, as I certainly was, by this
action of Mr. Parasyte. They had got up the rebellion on my account
directly, though indirectly on their own, and it would be a sad defeat
to have me carried off by an officer of the law. Mr. Greene walked up
to me, still wearing his smiling face.
"Well, Ernest, I am sorry for you; but I suppose I must do my duty. I
have a warrant for your arrest."
"I shall not resist," I replied.
"You shall have fair play."
"That's all I want."
"I am sorry to take you away," he added, in a low tone; "for, between
you and me, I think the boys have the rights of the matter; but I
can't help serving the warrant."
"Put him in irons, Mr. Greene. He is a violent fellow," said Mr.
Parasyte, savagely.
"I shall not do that," replied the sheriff. "I can handle him without
any irons."
"Mr. Greene," interposed Vallington, "will you allow me to look at
your warrant?"
"Certainly, if you want to."
"Don't do it, Mr. Greene!" shouted Mr. Parasyte.
"Don't be so grouty, sir. The young gentleman may see it, if he wants
to do so," replied the sheriff, with a broad grin on his fat face, as
he handed the warrant to the parson. "I don't belong to your school,
Mr. Parasyte, and I suppose I can do as I please."
The principal bit his lip again; and Vallington glanced at the legal
document.
"This warrant speaks about 'our county of Adieno,'" said the leader.
"Are you aware, Mr. Greene, that this island is not in the county of
Adieno?"
"No! Isn't it though?" laughed the sheriff.
"It certainly is not," added Vallington, returning the warrant to the
sheriff.
"What odds does that make?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, angrily. "The
offence was committed in Adieno county."
"Well, I don't know," said the sheriff. "I don't want to do anything
that isn't lawful. It may be right to take him here; but I'm not sure,
you see."
"That is absurd, Mr. Greene."
"I haven't been a deputy sheriff but about six months, and I'm not
fully posted yet. We'll go back to Parkville, and if I find it's all
right, I'll come over and arrest Ernest to-morrow. That will be soon
enough."
Mr. Greene seemed to be the happiest person on the island; and Mr.
Parasyte was so angry he could hardly contain himself.
CHAPTER XV.
IN WHICH ERNEST AND THE COMMISSARY VISIT CANNONDALE.
Mr. Parasyte, angry as he was, had sense enough left to see that he
could accomplish nothing by remaining longer at Camp Fair Play. The
spirit of freedom that prevailed there was unsuitable to his
constitution.
"'I go, but I return,'" said he, in the language of Catiline to the
Roman senate.
"When you return we shall receive you with all due respect, Mr.
Parasyte," said Harry Vallington.
Mr. Greene chuckled, and shook his fat sides with suppressed mirth;
and it was plain the principal had a very doubtful ally in the person
of the deputy sheriff. And the ill-mated pair walked towards the
landing, where we saw them embark, and leave the shore.
"Mr. Parasyte has more pluck than I gave him credit for," said Bob
Hale, after we had silently watched the departure of the boat. "Isn't
it a pity a man who knows so much, and is such a good teacher, should
be a tyrant?"
"He is intellectually great and morally little," added the parson,
with a savor of the cloth he was destined to wear. "He has always been
