" He was talking awhile last evening rather excitedly, but 
he ate some supper afterward. He has failed a good deal 
latterly." 
"No, I don't believe the talk hurt him." What could it 
have been but the salvation of souls, on which subject the 
Doctor thought him a little cracked. ' ' It's been coming on 
some time ; any man with half an eye can see that. " 
She drew a long, relieved breath, and glanced furtively at 
Victor. 
"I'd get him down stairs, if I could. There'll likely be 
one and another in to see him." 
"Yes ;" in an absent way. 
He went over to Mrs. Hurst, and took her hand. 
"He has been a good man a little queer in his ways to 
my thinking, but patient, self-denying, always ready to minis 
ter to others ; and if there's any seventh heaven I'm sure I've 
 
heard it mentioned he deserves it, although he would be the 
first to take the lowest seat in the synagogue. And so you 
needn't fear but that he will have his reward. ' Your loss will 
be his gain,' though I'm not much of a hand at quoting Scrip 
ture. And if we doctors could save everybody, it would set 
the good book sadly at naught." 
" I know ; yes ! I know ;" bowing her head. 
"You have your son to comfort you." 
The Doctor had gone so far out of his usual province that 
he had to clear his voice several times. 
"I'll drop in again at noon. John Hurst never neglected a 
fellow-creature, and he shall not suffer for any attention. 
Good day! Good day !" .bustling out with more ceremony 
than usual. 
"They know it now," he muttered to himself; "but she'll 
take it hard, for all she looks so quiet. What a fine fellow 
that young Hurst is : don't take much after his father. When 
will people learn that they can't set the laws of health and com 
mon sense at defiance, even in the cause of religion ? Dan'el 
went in the den of lions, to be sure ; but for people to be 
going into dens of beasts and brutes in human shape, with all 
their filth and rum, and stench enough to kill you, when 
they're not forced to ! Well, it may be religion ; but it's death 
all the same. Early and late. No rest, no let up of any kind. 
Taking his life in his hand, and now it's worn to the last slen 
der strand. Goodness me, how it does rain ! and I without an 
umbrella !" 
The Doctor blew his nose hard and trudged onward, his 
brain in a strange muddle. Did God require just what this 
man had been doing ? There were plenty of others not half 
so hard worked, with a good deal better pay. But then it was 
a queer world. 
Victor Hurst watched him down the street with a dull, un 
defined pain at his heart, not altogether for himself. Only 
it seemed sad that any human life should have in it so much 
 
labor and care, so little what, pleasure ? He was not looking 
for his reward here. And in the early days it had been dif 
ferent. Somehow he wanted to feel that there had been a 
little brightness in the life ebbing out to the chill ocean. 
Death at hand is such a horribly real thing to youth. 
His mother came near and laid her hand upon his 
shoulder. 
" You heard ?" she said, in a kind of wandering tone. 
"Yes.. It was not the talk last night. If he had loved 
me " his dry lips quivering. 
' ' He did love you. Can you never understand how it was ?" 
"with a little impatience. 
"For your sake only. We were, too unlike. Let it all go. 
I shall be a son to him as long as he lives." 
"It is best not in any event to let him know." 
"It is best." 
' ' She kindled the fire, while Victor went up stairs again. 
Standing there, he studied the gray, rigid face, wishing from 
the depths of his soul that it had all been different, that he had 
been this man's child. For the strength and power and passion 
he found in his blood startled him. 
"No, he could not have cared," he murmured. "It is not 
in human nature. I stood between, as it were, and divided 
the heart of the woman he loved. But, my God ! is my prayer 
answered sharply as that ?" 
For only last night he had longed to have his mother to 
himself, and would have crowded out this feeble old man, with 
his years of devotion. 
After their quiet breakfast, when each only made a pretence 
of eating, she began to plan for the change that must be 
effected. Off this room was another and a larger one, a very 
plain parlor where prayer-meetings were held, the few mar 
riages that strayed to him solemnized, and penitents examined 
or comforted. One by one the ornaments had disappeared 
bright, pretty, little things, which have so much home expression 
 
in them for women. But when she saw that they distressed 
her husband, she removed them out of sight, bravely cutting 
off her right hand that it might not offend another. 
A matting, rather worn, covered the floor ; the chairs were 
old fashioned, cane seated; the centre-table, an ancient mahog 
any, handed down from her mother ; a few religious pictures ; 
a plain set of shelves for books, and perhaps the nearest 
approach to ornament was a pair of pale green-glass candle 
sticks her silver ones had gone to feed the poor long ago. 
" You will not go to the shop this morning? The bed must 
be brought here it will be more convenient." 
