household assembled around the fire ; children, servants, and maids. Then the little ones were in 
structed in spelling and reading, in which business 
the servants and maids were faithful helpers of the 
house-father. After that, the catechism was taken 
in hand ; some spiritual songs were sung ; a portion 
was read aloud from the Bible and talked about, 
in the course of which very lovely and profitable 
words were often spoken; the old histories and 
legends and stories of the country, handed down 
from father to son, came in for their share of attention ; the laws, manners and usages which custom 
had made binding were discussed; and the "Flett" 
hour was one so full of enjoyment and so full of 
instruction that it was looked forward to during 
the whole day by both old and young. And this 
" Flett " hour was a strong fortress against the intrusion of innovations; and it can be shewn, that 
the new ways, that is, the godless new ways, never 
came until the " Flett " hours were given up. This 
Flett' (or great middle hall of the house) 'with 
its hearth was as it were the home sanctuary, in a 
certain degree the domestic altar. From there too, 
the peasant could overlook his whole house and 
prevent any disorders. Usually there was only on.e 
dwelling-room in the house, called the " Donz," 
which however was for the most part used merely 
for eating and spinning, and served for the whole, 
for grandparents and father and mother and children and men and maids; for the meals were also 
in common; and that old people should be portioned off and take what was called their part, was 
a thing unheard of; it would have brought unend 
ing disgrace upon the peasant's head. It was just 
as little thought possible that the peasant should 
take his meals separate from his men and maid-servants; they all formed one great family. 
" ' I said awhile ago, that in the ravages of the 
war these people had saved what they held dearest, namely, their books. They had managed it 
in this way. In every " Donz " the furniture con 
sisted only of a large table, a table with folding 
leaves ' " (a Klapptisch I don't know whether that 
is a table that folds together, or a table shelf that 
folds up against the wall) '"a cupboard, and some 
wooden chairs and stools; but by the side of the 
stove there stood a " grandfather's chair " of more 
pretension, covered with leather, in which indeed 
 
the peasant himself when he came home from the 
field in the evening, was wont to rest himself for a 
while. The seat, also covered with leather, they 
had made movable, so. that it could be lifted up 
and shut down; and beneath this seat the books 
were placed in security; nothing was to be seen 
of them when the seat was shut down, and nobody 
would look for them there. And it was quite needful that they should preserve their books so carefully ; for the Catholic soldiers in. the thirty years' 
war waged a regular war of extermination against 
Lutheran books. 
'"One evening, Drewes the father, that is, the 
farmer, was sitting in his house, with his people 
around the hearth in the "Flett," and they were 
just speaking of the great victory which the Lutherans under General Torstensohn had fought for 
and gained at Leipzig; and the house-father was 
giving his opinion that soon now surely enough 
blood would have flowed, and that peace must be 
near. Upon that came his neighbour hastily in 
and said, " Neighbour, hurry and loose your cattle, and let us flee to the wood; the emperor's 
forces are only half an hour off." Quick everybody sprang up ; the cattle were muzzled to prevent their bellowing; the few bits of clothing and 
some victuals were caught up ; and away they went 
plunging into the thickest part of the forest, as fast 
and as noiselessly as they could. Hinz closed the 
procession, and when the cattle were got out of 
sight he took post behind a tree, that he might see 
 
what the soldiers would do. He had not long to 
watch; for it was scarcely a quarter of an hour 
later that bright flames went crackling up into the 
sky; both houses together with the outbuildings 
were in a blaze. The soldiers were enraged that 
they had found no booty, and had set fire to everything. Hinz hastened now into the thick of the 
wood after the others, and when he caught up with 
them he told them of their misfortune. With that, 
they all fell upon their knees and thanked God that 
he had saved their lives and their cattle; and it 
never came into any one's head to weep so much 
as a single tear; they could build huts for them 
selves in the wood; and their hearts did not hang 
upon things of this world. But what is this? what 
could all of a sudden force such a deep sigh from 
Father Drewes that it absolutely startled them all? 
what could bring great tears into the eyes of that 
strong man, whom nobody had ever seen weep before? "Godfather Hinz," he said with his voice 
half stifled with pain, "our books! our books! 
Ah, they are burnt up by now! our own and 
our children's only treasure and comfort ! " And 
behold, they all then fell to weeping, men and 
women and children, men and maids, as if their 
hearts would break. At last spoke out the old 
Father Hinz, an eighty-years-old grey-headed man, 
" Hush, children ! if our books are burned, our 
God and Saviour is not gone with them; we have 
him in our hearts ; and his word we have too, not 
only in the Bible but in our memories. I will say 
 
out a chapter for you every morning and very 
evening, out of my heart." Then they grew quiet, 
