I certainly remember the conversation in the elm walk—every word of it.
It was a singular conversation,” he continued hurriedly. “I have not
found her yet, by the way. What is love, anyhow? Something always seems
to be lacking. I have wanted a good many women, but there were shallows
somewhere.”
Patience had taken a chair and was fanning herself slowly. She answered
with a judicial air, as of one deciding some abstract point to which she
had given exhaustive study: “The lack is spiritual emotion. People of
strong natures who are really in love are shaken by a passion that for
the time being demands no physical expression. It is only when it
subsides, in fact, that the other manifests itself. On the other hand,
the unimpassioned, the physically meagre, are incapable of even
imagining such an exaltation of emotion. It is the supreme convulsion of
mystery. And it must be impossible to feel it more than once in a
lifetime—for more than one person, I mean.”
“Have you ever felt it?” he asked abruptly. He was sitting opposite her,
his brows drawn together, regarding her intently. Her cool impersonality
nonplussed him.
“No.”
“Then how do you know?”
“From the organ. If one wants to read the riddle of human nature let him
listen to the organ for ten minutes. It lashes the soul—the emotional
nature—up to its utmost possibilities. One knows instinctively—that
is, if one is given to reasoning at all; for instincts are dead letters
without analysis—that only one other force can cause a mightier tumult,
a greater exaltation. Those that do not reason mistake it for a desire
to spread their wings and fly to the throne of grace.”
Bourke set his lips and looked at the floor. “Of course you are right,”
he said. “A man would never know that until he had felt it. It takes a
woman to divine it. Perhaps it is as well he doesn’t know it—there is
one disappointment the less in life if such moments never come to him;
and I doubt if they come to many. Either the savage is too strong in
most of us, or we never come within range of the responsive spark. I
have held that if there is any meaning at all in the progress of man out
of barbarism it is that he shall become a brain with a refinement and
intensity of passion which shall give happiness without disgust. But you
go beyond me.”
“Oh, we are both right,” said Patience, rising. “We are much better off
than our ancestors. I like so much to talk to you. When I am free you
must come to see me often.”
“I shall, indeed. How gracefully you fan yourself. I never saw any one
use the fan in exactly the same way.”
“I learned how from the old Spanish women in Monterey. They hold the
thumb outwards, you know. That makes all the difference in the world.
Au revoir.”
                                  XII
The trial began on the eighth of March. Patience slept ill the night
before, and arose early. She looked forward to the day’s ordeal with
mingled nervousness and curiosity. Her faith in Bourke was complete, and
her mind was of the order that craves experience. She could not divest
herself of the idea that she was about to play the part of heroine in a
great human drama. And assuredly there has been no such theatre as the
court room since the world began.
She dressed herself with extreme care, in a tailor frock and toque of
black and white. The costume was becoming, but she shook her head at her
reflection in the mirror: hers was not the type of beauty to appeal to
the class of men in whose hands her life would be; rather they would
resent its cold pride, its manifest of race and civilisation. She
remembered her youthful satisfaction in the fact that “common men did
not like her.” Rosita or Honora would carry a jury by storm, but she was
too subtle to appeal to men outside of her own social sphere. Tarbox
liked her because she was game and dependent on him for comfort: it was
doubtful if he thought her pretty. He came up at ten minutes to ten. He
wore a new suit of clothes, and looked excited and impatient.
“There’s a lot of swells come,” he said without preliminary; “some from
New York and some from the county. We’ve got ’em up in the gallery, and
they look fine in their new spring clothes, I tell you. First time I
ever seen swells in this court house. I rather thought they didn’t go in
for that kind of thing.”
“They go in for fads, and you can as easily tell where lightning will
strike next as what will be the next fad to possess fashionable women.
Where is Mr. Bourke?”
“Up in the court room, I guess. Ready?”
A few moments later he led her up the stair at the back of the court
room. A crowd of men at the door parted to let her enter, staring at her
with eager curiosity. As she walked down the room to her seat beside her
counsel she was conscious of a deep level of men’s faces below and a
tier of high-bred faces and bright spring gowns in the gallery above.
She felt as if she were being shot upon a battery of eyes, and an
impulse to turn and run; she looked like a black and white effigy of
pride.
The large handsome room was tinted a pale blue and stencilled about the
mouldings. The Bench and panelling behind it, the desks and tables, were
of black walnut. Four long windows on each side of the room revealed the
naked trees of March and the cheerless landscape. On the right of
Patience’s chair was the empty jury box, before her the Bench. In the
space thus formed—flanked on the other side by the talesmen summoned
for the trial and at the back by the audience—was a right angle of long
study tables, three or four round tables, and many chairs. Every chair
was occupied. Writing pads lay on the smaller tables. Patience
recognised several of the reporters. By one of the long tables before
the jury box sat Bourke, Simms, and Lansing. The former whispered to her
that many of the men within the rail were eminent lawyers who had come
to hear the case tried.
The judge sat alone on the Bench: an old man with pink face and head and
neck, a close band of silver hair at the base of his skull. His face was
narrow, his upper lip long. On either side of his mouth was a deep rut.
The nose was coarse and strong, the eyes behind the spectacles
humourous, severe, and a little sly. His silver chin-tuft was shaped
like the queen of hearts.
