those temptations; but she prayed for strength to resist them. She
labored to be true to her high purpose. The anchor which she always
wore on her breast frequently reminded her of her short-comings--frequently
recalled the memories of the dying angel who had spoken peace to her
troubled soul.
"HOPE AND HAVE," she often said to herself; and the words were
a talisman to keep her in the path of duty. Continually she kept before
her what she hoped to be, and continually she labored to attain the
high and beautiful ideal of a true life.
She was happy in her new home, and her friends were happy in her
presence there; but not long was this happiness to continue, for even
then was gathering in the distance the storm which was to overwhelm
them with woe and desolation. An experience of the most awful and
trying character was in store for Fanny, for which her growth in grace
and goodness was the best, and indeed the only preparation.
By treaty and purchase the United States government had obtained vast
tracts of the lands of the various sub-tribes of the Sioux and Dakotah
Indians. By the original treaty the natives had reserved for their own
use the country on both sides of the Minnesota River, including a tract
one hundred and fifty miles in length by twenty in breadth. When the
Senate of the United States came to act upon the treaty, it was made a
condition of the approval that this reservation should also be ceded to
the whites. The Indians assented to the condition, but no lands being
appropriated for their use, as agreed, they had moved upon the
reservation, and their right to it was recognized.
A portion of this reservation was subsequently acquired by purchase,
but the Indians continued to occupy the rest of it. By the various
treaties, the Indians were paid certain sums of money every year, and
supplied with quantities of goods, such as blankets, clothing, tools,
and arms. But the money was not paid, nor the goods delivered, when
due. The Indians were cheated by traders, and the debts due the latter
were taken from the money to be paid the former. The neglect of the
government,--fully occupied in suppressing the rebellion at the
South,--and the immense frauds practised upon the simple natives,
roused their indignation, and stirred up a hatred which culminated in
the most terrible Indian massacre recorded in the annals of our
country.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE INDIAN MASSACRE.
Though there were no Indians residing very near the Lake Settlement,
they frequently visited the place, and the settlers were on familiar
terms with them. At the house of John Grant they were always treated
with kindness and a generous hospitality. Among those who sometimes
came was a chief called Lean Bear. Fanny was much interested in these
denizens of the forest, and she exerted herself to please them, and
particularly the chief of the Red Irons, as his tribe was called. She
sang to him, brought him milk and bread, and treated him like a great
man. He was a brawny fellow, morose and savage, and though he smiled
slightly, he did not seem to appreciate her kindness.
About the 15th of August, when Fanny had been at the settlement less
than two months, Mr. Grant started for one of the Indian Agencies, on
the Minnesota River, for the purpose of procuring supplies of the
traders in that vicinity. He went with a wagon and a span of horses,
intending to be absent ten days.
One morning, when he had been gone a week, Mrs. Grant was milking the
cows, of which they kept twenty. Ethan was helping her, and Fanny, not
yet a proficient in the art, was doing what she could to assist.
Doubtless she was rather bungling in the operation, for the cow was not
as patient as usual.
"Seems like you gals from the east don't know much," laughed Ethan.
"You are on the wrong side of the creetur."
"So I am! I thought there was something wrong, for the cow don't stand
quiet," replied Fanny.
"No wonder; cows allers wants things did accordin' to rule," added
Ethan.
"I didn't mind that I was on the wrong side."
"What do the gals do out east that they don't know how to milk?"
"They don't milk there."
"They don't do nothin'--do they?"
"Not much; at least, they didn't at Woodville."
"Well, gals isn't good for much, nohow," said Ethan, philosophically,
as he commenced milking another cow.
"They can do some things as well as boys."
"Perhaps they kin; but you couldn't milk a cow till you kim out hyer."
"I could not."
"Hokee!" suddenly exclaimed Ethan. "What's all that mean?"
"What, Ethan?"
"Don't you see all them hosses up to the house? Hokee! Them's Injins,
as sure's you live!"
Fanny looked, and saw about twenty Indians ride up to the house and
dismount. The sight did not alarm her, though it was rather early in
the morning for such a visit.
"D'ye see all them Injins, Miss Grant?" said Ethan to his mistress.
"Dear me! What can they want at this time in the morning? I must go
into the house, and see to them, for they'll steal like all possessed."
Mrs. Grant put her milk-pail in a safe place, and hastened to the
house, which she reached before any of the savages had secured their
horses. Five or six of the visitors entered by the front door, and the
rest assembled in a group, a short distance from the dwelling.
"I wonder what them redskins wants here so airly in the mornin'," mused
Ethan, when Mrs. Grant had gone. "I wonder ef they know there ain't no
one to home but women folks and boys."
"Suppose they do know,--what then?" asked Fanny.
"Nothin'; only I reckon they kim to steal sunthin'."
"They wouldn't steal from aunt Grant."
"Wouldn't they, though!" exclaimed Ethan, incredulously.
"She has been very kind to them."
"They'd steal from their own mothers," added Ethan, as he finished
milking another cow, and moved towards a third.
As he crossed the yard he stopped to look at the horses, and to see
